Captain's log, stardate 48315.6. We've traced the energy pulses from the array to the fifth planet of the neighbouring system and believe they may have been used in some fashion to transport Kim and Torres to the planet's surface.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Maquis ship and Voyager have encountered a debris field where sensors have detected a small vessel. One humanoid life form is on board.#
Captain's log, Stardate 48439.7. As we maintain a course back to the Alpha Quadrant, we're conducting what would normally be routine maintenance to the ship. Routine, that is, if we had access to a starbase.#
Captain's log, stardate 48532.4. We're on our way to a rogue planetoid which Mister Neelix tells us is an extremely rich source of raw dilithium. If he's right, this could go a long way toward easing our power shortage.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are pursuing the alien ship from the moon. They are not responding to hails and it appears that our two ships are evenly matched for speed.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The aliens have successfully transplanted one of Kes' lungs into Neelix. The dampening field has been deactivated, and I have allowed them to beam back to their vessel. We are resuming a course home.#
Captain's log, stardate 48579.4. The crew has been scanning constantly for anomalies that might help us shorten our journey home. Ensign Kim has reported an exciting discovery. A subspace disturbance which may be a wormhole.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Encouraged by his success in transmitting a signal to the Alpha Quadrant, Mister Kim is investigating the possibility of establishing a voice link with whoever is at the other end of the wormhole.#
Captain's log, stardate 48623.5. There are two hundred forty six elements known to Federation science. We believe we have just discovered the two hundred forty seventh inside the ring system of a Class D planet.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've returned to the ring system, and we're preparing to send Ptera back to her dimension. Lieutenant Torres has found a way to temporarily protect the warp core against the vacuoles but she is uncertain how long her measures will be effective.#
Captain's log, stardate 48642.5. The crew is enjoying an evening on Sikaris. They are discovering, to their delight, that reports of this species' hospitality have not been exaggerated.#
Captain's log, stardate 48658.2. We successfully left orbit without further interference from the Kazon. Commander Chakotay was injured, but is recovering from his wounds.#
Captain's log, stardate 48693.2. We've altered course to investigate some unusually intense photonic activity in a nearby protostar. Lieutenant Torres and I are beaming aboard samples for further analysis.#
Captain's log, stardate 48710.5. Since the return of our missing crewmen, we've been unable to locate any further traces of the photonic aliens.#
Captain's log, stardate 48734.2. Sometimes it's a good idea to get away from being a Captain for a while. To that end, I've started participating in a new holonovel. The setting is ancient England.#
Captain's log, supplemental. It appears that Mister Tuvok and Kes were both hit by an unidentified energy discharge. Tuvok was not badly hurt, but Kes is in a coma.#
Captain's log, stardate 48735.9. We have returned to the co-ordinates where we ejected the warp core and have successfully retrieved it. Now we're hoping the Doctor will be able to successfully reintegrate Commander Chakotay's consciousness.#
Captain's log, stardate 48784.2. We have completed our survey of the Avery system and are returning to retrieve Lieutenants Paris, Torres and Durst. By now, they should have concluded their inspection of the magnesite formations on the third planet.#
Captain's log, stardate 48832.1. Kes has prevailed upon Neelix to allow Doctor Jetrel to continue metabolic scans in the hope that it will facilitate treatment once the antibody has been synthesised.#
Captain's log, stardate 48840.5. Doctor Jetrel's metremia is now in it's final stage. He's spending his remaining hours in Sickbay.#
Captain's log, stardate 48846.5. Ordinarily the loss of a gel pack would be a minor inconvenience, but here in the Delta Quadrant it's a reminder of the precarious nature of our journey.#
Captain's log, stardate 48859.3. Lieutenant Tuvok has reported what may be a possible explanation for the infection in the bio-neural gel packs. I have asked Lieutenant Torres and her team to investigate Neelix's kitchen.#
Captain's log, stardate 48921.3. I continue to wonder about the issue of procreation aboard the ship. Certainly, it's wrong to interfere with the private lives and decisions of the crew, yet I remain concerned about the environment we could provide for any child born here.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have no explanation for the mysterious disappearance of the telepathic alien. We can't even be certain that he was actually here. He seems to have left us with any number of unanswered questions.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've arrived at what Tanis calls the meeting place, the region of space where Suspiria exists.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've resumed our course back to the Alpha quadrant but the female Caretaker is still out there with the power to send us home, and I will use all my power to find her and convince her to do just that.#
Captain's log, stardate 49208.5. I have convened a meeting of the senior staff to determine how we can get close enough to the Nistrim ship to deploy the anti-proton beam.#
Captain's log, stardate 49211.5. Now that Commander Chakotay has made a full recovery, I'm faced with the difficult task of responding to his failure to follow procedure.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I'm determined to find a better alternative to suicide or endless prison, so I've summoned the advocate Q to make him a proposal.#
Captain's log, stardate 49301.2. We have assigned quarters to our new passenger, who has entered his name on our crew manifest as Quinn. I am anxious to engage him in ship activities as soon as possible.#
Captain's log, stardate 49337.4. After sending a subspace message to Seska and the Nistrim Maje Culluh, we have received a quick response.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We're on our way to rendezvous with Mister Neelix. I can only hope that he had more luck with the Kazon than we did.#
Captain's log, stardate 49342.5. Neelix has returned from Sobras where he learned a disturbing piece of information that may require us to rethink our plans.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Ensign Suder has been incarcerated in secured quarters where he will likely spend the rest of our journey home. Lieutenant Tuvok remains under observation in Sickbay.#
Captain's log, stardate 49485.2. In spite of the fact that Tom Paris has been abducted by the Kazon, we must continue on course for the Hemikek system.#
Captain's log, stardate 49548.7. There are no signs of any pursuing Vidiian vessels, and we have resumed a course toward home.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I've sent out scouting parties to analyse the mineral deposits in the moons around Drayan Two. Meanwhile, I've arranged to meet with the planet's leader.#
Captain's log, stardate 49655.2. Our sensors have located a variety of flower which may prove to be a valuable nutritional supplement. I have sent Mister Neelix and Mister Tuvok to collect samples.#
Captain's log, stardate 49678.4. It's been two weeks since the transporter accident that created Mister Tuvix, and while it's still not entirely clear that he's with us permanently, he's certainly been doing his best to settle in. The crew seems to be growing accustomed to his presence, and he's proving to be a very able tactical officer who isn't afraid to express his opinions. While he's forging relationships with many of the officers, he seems to be keeping a respectful distance from Kes, allowing her to adjust to the circumstances on her own terms. As for my relationship with Tuvix, I've found him to be an able advisor who skillfully uses humour to make his points. And although I feel a bit guilty saying it, his cooking is better than Neelix's. My taste buds are definitely happy to have him around.#
Acting Captain's log, supplemental. After six weeks, the decision to leave Captain Janeway and the First Officer behind still seems to weigh heavily on the crew.#
Captain's log, Stardate 49694.2. We have contacted the Vidiian convoy with encouraging results. They have promised to communicate with Doctor Denara Pel and ask if she will help us.#
Captain's log, supplemental. None of the four Kazon attacks have caused serious damage, but the starboard ventral has been hit each time, complicating repairs on the secondary command processors.#
Captain's log, stardate 50063.2. We've accepted an invitation from the Nechani to take a few days shore leave on their world. We're enjoying the opportunity to learn about their culture.#
Captain's log, stardate 50074.3. We have detected evidence that a wormhole recently appeared and then disappeared in a nearby solar system. We're on our way there to investigate.#
Captain's log, stardate 50074.5. Based on information provided by the probe, we have replicated local attire for Commander Chakotay and Lieutenant Paris. They have gone to the surface to investigate.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I've been asked to join Lieutenant Torres and Ensign Kim in the science lab to hear what they've termed as very exciting news.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The away team has returned with some very disturbing observations about the situation on the planet.#
Captain's log, stardate 50156.2. After seventy two hours, Lieutenant Paris and Ensign Kim are still missing, and I'm quickly losing patience with the Akritirian authorities. They continue to deny us access to the surface, and they've yet to confirm whether our crewmen were killed in the bombing.#
Captain's log, supplemental. So far we've located three ships with paralithium plasma emissions, but none of them appears to have produced explosives. We're currently in pursuit of a fourth vessel.#
Captain's log, stardate 50203.1. We're three days away from Enara Prime, home of the passengers we picked up from a colony in the Fima system. Our high warp capability has greatly reduced the time it normally takes them to make the journey home. In return, the Enarans have shared their energy conservation technology with us and, perhaps more importantly, their friendship.#
Captain's log, stardate 50211.4. We're approaching Enara and preparing to host a farewell party for our guests. They've made every effort to help us understand their telepathic abilities, but it's still a mystery why they've affected Lieutenant Torres so strongly.#
Captain's log, stardate 50312.5. We are again in the Delta Quadrant, at the exact time and place we first encountered the timeship. I've resumed a course for Earth and I've ordered the crew to the Mess Hall for a toast.#
Captain's log, stardate 50348.1. We've entered orbit around Ilari and sent a message to the Autarch inviting him to visit the ship. Instead, he'll be sending an official representative.#
Captain's log, stardate 50351.4. We're holding a meeting with Demmas, the Autarch's eldest son and heir, in an effort to understand the recent hostile activity.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Demmas has decided to remain on board Voyager for the time being, but continues to monitor the worsening situation on Ilari.#
Captain's log, stardate 50361.7. Lieutenant Tuvok hasn't reported for our scheduled rendezvous and we've been unable to contact him. We're now considering other, more forceful, options.#
Captain's log, stardate 50384.2. Q's unannounced visits continue. Since I suspect he's up to something more than pursuing me, I've instructed the crew to take every opportunity to uncover his true motives.#
Captain's log, stardate 50425.1. Mister Neelix and I have completed our three day trade mission with the Tak Tak, one of the more unusual species we've encountered in the Delta Quadrant. We are en route back to Voyager.#
Captain's log, stardate 50460.3. We've been investigating an inversion nebula for several days. This phenomenon has never been seen in the Alpha Quadrant, and is proving something of a mystery to us here.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've completed sensor scans and confirmed our discovery of an unusual dampening field responsible for keeping this unstable nebula from going up in flames. The field's origin is still a mystery.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I have called a meeting of the senior staff to inform them of some very disturbing news I have just received#
Captain's log, stardate 50537.2. Routine scans of an uninhabited star system have revealed the presence of gallicite, a very rare substance, on the fourth planet.#
Captain's log, stardate 50541.6. We're following through with Chakotay's offer to help the Sakari improve their camouflage and they've agreed to supply us with a generous quantity of gallicite.#
Captain's log, stardate 50518.6. The Doctor has examined me thoroughly and pronounced me physically fit, but I'll admit that it'll take a little longer to work through the emotional impact of my experience.#
Captain's log, stardate 50622.4. While Commander Chakotay scouts for a faster route through the Nekrit Expanse, we are continuing our month-long journey through this sparsely populated region.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've detected a message buoy launched from Chakotay's shuttle and are heading toward it. The autopsy of the Borg corpse is underway.#
Captain's log, stardate 50693.2. We've been in orbit above an outpost of the Mikhal Travellers. This loosely governed race of explorers has extensive knowledge of the territory ahead of us, which they are willing to share.#
Captain's log 50732.4. The Taresians have escorted us back to their homeworld so we can continue to investigate their claim that Ensign Kim is a member of their race.#
CHAKOTAY : Captain's log, stardate 55836.2. Kes has remained in temporal sync with us for two days now, but since we don't know when she may jump again, we can't afford to rest until we've found some way to help her.#
Captain's log, stardate 50836.2. We've had long range communications with a seemingly friendly race known as the Vostigye. We'll be rendezvousing within the hour at one of their space stations.#
Captain's log, stardate 50912.4. It's been twelve hours since these mysterious exchanges began, and we still haven't discovered their cause. I've already lost over half my crew.#
Captain's log, stardate 50929.6. The Nyrians have surrendered Voyager, and my crew is safely back on board. The former prisoners on the habitat vessel have contacted their native worlds, and are waiting to be taken home.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Warp drive is still offline and we don't know whether the Borg have detected us. Kes' psychokinetic abilities continue to damage the ship's structural integrity, and as a result our defences have been compromised.#
Captain's log, stardate 51082.4. After searching for more than two days we've finally located what's left of Commander Chakotay's shuttle. I can only hope the Commander has fared better than his vessel.#
Captain's log, stardate 51096.5 Although Lieutenant Tuvok has managed to bring Commander Chakotay safely back to the ship, it may be some time before his psychological wounds are fully healed.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I've assembled a team to analyse every square metre of the cargo bay. This has essentially been her quarters for the last two months, and I'm determined to find something here that might shed light on Seven of Nine's actions.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I've been trying to retrace Seven of Nine's footsteps, her actions during the last few days, but I'm still no closer to understanding what's happened.#
Captain's log, stardate 51244.3. With the aliens gone, the Doctor has been able to remove their devices from the crew and neutralise the genetic tags.#
Captain's log, stardate 51268.4. This morning's attack destroyed the power grid on deck eleven. No casualties this time, but the replicator system was badly damaged. We've gone to emergency rations. As a result, the situation has gotten a little worse. Environmental controls continue to fail. Seven decks have been rendered uninhabitable and we've had to relocate the crew. Quarters are close, nerves are frayed, and I'm not sure what's more difficult to maintain. Voyager's systems or the crew's morale. What's important is that we're together, working toward a single goal. Survival.#
Captain's log, stardate 51425.4. Our condition has left us vulnerable to spatial anomalies and to any alien species eager for a piece of hardware. We've taken refuge in a class nine nebula.#
Captain's log, stardate 51682.2. I've forged a coalition with the Nihydron and the Mawasi. Together, we're preparing to attack the weapon ship.#
Captain's log, Stardate 51252.3. The past couple of weeks have been uneventful but we've made excellent progress on the new Astrometrics lab.#
Captain's log, stardate 51367.2: We've spent the last three days on the Mari homeworld. It's been a while since we've had the opportunity to make new friends and the crew seems to be making the most of our stay.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Chief Examiner Nimira has taken custody of Mister Guill. Whether his arrest will lead to reforms in the Mari justice system is anyone's guess. In the meantime, the Doctor is treating Lieutenant Torres and Commander Tuvok.#
Captain's log, stardate 51386.4. With ship's systems at nearly half capacity, it's taken us  		ten days to track our stolen technology.#
Captain's log, stardate 51408.3. We're back on course to the Alpha Quadrant.  		With the ship's computer and the Doctor's emitter returned to proper places,  		I've set aside some time to check on the Maestro.#
Captain's log, stardate 51449.2. After receiving a distress call from Commander Chakotay, we've sent a beacon into the nebula and we're in the process of tracking down the away team.#
Captain's log, stardate 51501.4. After two days at high warp, we're close enough to the relay station to see it on long range visual sensors.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine and Commander Tuvok suffered no serious physical damage after their encounter on the alien ship. I've been eager to hear Tuvok's impressions of the species who took them hostage.#
Captain's log, stardate 51652.3. It's been twelve hours, and our sensors show no sign of any Hirogen vessels. But their people are scattered throughout this region, and something tells me that the hunt for Voyager is far from over.#
Captain's log, stardate 51679.4. We've detected the warp signature from Kovin's ship and we're now in pursuit. In the meantime, Tuvok and I have been examining the tools from Kovin's lab.#
Captain's log, stardate 51715.2. The damage to Voyager has been extreme. Both sides have taken heavy casualties, and it's clear that no one is going to win this conflict. The fighting has reached a standstill and the remaining Hirogen have agreed to negotiate a truce.#
Captain's log, stardate 51762.4. The repairs to Steth's coaxial drive have been completed well ahead of schedule.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The doctor has treated Mister Paris' phaser wounds, but has been unable to wake him. The motive for his attack remains a mystery.#
Captain's log, stardate 51775.2. While the alien intruder remains trapped in the body of his last victim, the doctor has found a way to return Tom, Steth and me to our own bodies.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Encrypt log entry. We're approaching the star system where we believe we'll find Omega. I have to admit, I have never been this apprehensive about a mission. I know how Einstein must have felt about the atom bomb, or Marcus when she developed the Genesis device. They watched helplessly as science took a destructive course. But I have the chance to prevent that from happening. I just hope it's not too late.#
Captain's log, stardate 51793.4. We've arranged for our guests in Sickbay  		to be taken back to their homeworld, and we can finally put this mission  		behind us. This will be my last encrypted log concerning the  		Omega Directive. The classified datafiles will now be destroyed.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I've ordered adaptations to our shields to repel the thermionic discharges. Hoping that the benefits will outweigh the risks, we're now trying to beam deuterium from beneath the planet's surface.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Doctor continues to investigate Tom and Harry, whose condition seems as serious as it is strange.#
Captain's log, supplemental. This protonebula seems to have a mind of its own. It's still expanding, with no end in sight. We're holding at a safe distance to monitor its growth.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've stepped up the pace of construction in order to finish our shuttle before the Malon finish theirs. According to Seven's most recent intelligence we've gained some ground over the last twenty four hours , putting us in a virtual dead heat with our competitors.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Until we know exactly what's going on I'm keeping Voyager concealed behind a class three moon.#
Captain's log, stardate 52136.4. We've managed to avoid a military conflict with Species 8472, at least for now. In an effort to strengthen the truce, we're exchanging technology.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've weathered the ion storm and tracked the Delta Flyer to an M-class planetoid.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Ensign Wildman has recovered from her injuries, and the Delta Flyer, though battered, is intact.#
Captain's log, supplemental. While the Doctor seems to be making progress, Commander Chakotay and I have hit a wall in our attempt to decipher the alien message.#
Captain's log, stardate 52143.6. With any luck, my next log entry will be made in the Alpha quadrant. But should our luck run out, I'd like to say for the record that the crew of Voyager acted with distinction and valour.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Our Slipstream flight may have been brief, but it took nearly ten years off our journey. I've given the order to dismantle the Quantum Drive until the technology can be perfected. Despite the setback, we have a renewed sense of momentum. It no longer seems a question of if we get home, but when.#
Captain's log, Stardate 52179.4. After salvaging the Delta Flyer, we've resumed our course toward the Alpha Quadrant. I now have to turn my attention to a matter of discipline.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Long range sensors have detected a vessel belonging to species 6339. We've set a course to intercept them in the hopes they can help us restore Seven of Nine.#
Captain's log, stardate 52356.2. After nearly a week of regeneration Seven of Nine has finally recovered from her ordeal.#
Captain's log, supplemental. After weeks of playing hide and seek with the Devore inspectors, our goal is near. A transport vessel that will take our passengers to a wormhole leading out of hostile territory.#
Captain's log, supplemental. It's taken us nearly two days, but we've managed to locate Torat, the man who's supposedly an expert on wormholes. Unfortunately, he seems reluctant to share his expertise.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Our Doctor is now our patient. It's been two weeks since I've ordered a round the clock vigil. A crew member has stayed with him at all times, offering a sounding board and a familiar presence while he struggles to understand his memories and thoughts. The chance of recovery? Uncertain.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've been spinning our wheels for three days now, and still no progress in breaking free of the subspace layer.#
JANEWAY : Captain's log, stardate 52542.3. Long range sensors have identified a wormhole leading to the Alpha quadrant. Unfortunately, secondary scans have revealed that it's some kind of elaborate deception. The question is, who's attempting to deceive us and why?#
JANEWAY : Captain's log, supplemental. We've begun to receive faint telemetry from our probe. I don't want to get the crew's hopes up but B'Elanna thinks it may be a message from Starfleet. I'm beginning to wonder if my earlier scepticism was justified.#
Captain's log, 52542.3. we've deployed a series of beacons to warn other vessels about the bioplasmic creature and resumed a course for home. Our real home.#
Captain's log, supplemental. After two weeks we're close to repairing the Varro's warp drive. Then there's the Varro crew. I'm starting to think they'd rather give up warp travel than accept help from strangers.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Most of the Varro have opted to stay together, travelling in separate ships, but the dissident group has been granted permission to break away and find their own path. We wish them luck.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Operation Fort Knox is ready to proceed. All departments are standing by and I've given the order to begin at oh six hundred hours.#
Captain's log, stardate 52619.2. We got another twenty thousand light years out of the transwarp coil before it gave out. I figure we're a good fifteen years closer to home.#
Captain's log, stardate 52586.3. We've had a lot to celebrate lately. Tom and B'Elanna's wedding, Ensign Harper's new baby, and the continued health of our warp drive, which has taken us within striking distance of home.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've lost sixty three crewmen, and our systems are continuing to fail. Though we're still five weeks away from the Demon Planet, we haven't given up hope.#
KIM : Acting Captain's log, stardate 52597.4. Our situation's getting worse every day. More than eighty percent of the ship is uninhabitable. Most of the crew are gone. It seems less and less likely that the few of us left will reach our destination.#
JANEWAY: A PADD here, a Captain's log there, maybe a couple of holodeck programmes. It won't be as much to go on as we might think. I've gone through dozens of histories written about twenty first century Earth, all of them biased in one way or another. The Vulcans describe First Contact with a savagely illogical race. Ferengi talk about Wall Street as if it were holy ground. The Bolians express dismay at the low quality of human plumbing. And human historians? Exact same story. Every culture saw it a different way. So I go back to the raw material. Birth certificates, death certificates, marriage certificates, census surveys, voter registration forms, housing records, medical, employment, court records. It's all fragmented and incomplete.#
Captain's log: stardate 53049.2. We've docked at the Markonian outpost and agreed to mutual visits, so I'm allowing shore leave to anyone who wants it. Commander Tuvok has objected to taking on too many visitors, but security issues aside, I'm looking forward to a cultural exchange, and making some new friends.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine has decided to undergo the procedure that will link her mind with the other drones. Despite the risk involved, she feels an obligation to help these distant cousins.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've revived nearly two hundred of the Vaadwaur and we're moving forward with our unexpected alliance.#
Captain's log, stardate 53167.9. After two days, there's been no sign of the Vaadwaur or the Turei. However, Seven of Nine has made an unsettling discovery.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The computer has analysed Tuvok's diagram and identified the Ba'Neth cloaking frequency. We've narrowed the search to a handful of systems.#
Captain's log, stardate 53301.2. The away team collected over sixty teraquads of data on the anomaly. Before we begin to analyse them, we've decided to pay our respects to an old colleague.#
Captain's log, supplemental. After further testing, we activated the catapult and were hurtled across thirty sectors of space. In less than an hour, we cut three years off our journey. I'm happy to say the Doctor has repaired Seven of Nine's cortical processor and she's returned to duty.#
Captain's log, stardate 53447.2. The crew's enjoying a much needed shore leave on the Norcadian homeworld while I visit Pendari, a planet in the neighbouring system. I'm leaving Commander Chakotay in charge of Voyager.#
Captain's log, stardate 53529.4. We've resumed course for the Alpha quadrant and initiated repairs. I can't say I'm sorry to see this shore leave come to an end.#
Captain's log, stardate 53556.4. We've towed a damaged vessel aboard and are attempting to repair it while the Doctor treats the Qomarian crew, who have suffered minor injuries.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Qomar have completed repairs to their ship and, surprisingly, have invited us to visit their system. Apparently, it's no longer closed to outsiders.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Harry's recovering in Sickbay, and the rest of the away team is safe and sound. As for the drones, the Doctor's removed most of their implants, leaving us with four very troubled children.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've entered the system where the away team conducted its recent survey, hoping to find an explanation for their memories of the Nakan massacre.#
Captain's log, stardate 53679.4. The Doctor has stopped Ensign Ballard's treatments and her Kobali physiology is already beginning to reassert itself. All but one of us have said our goodbyes.#
Captain's log, stardate 53753.2. Long range scans of the T cluster have indicated a number of tantalising anomalies. The away team should have a field day. Who knows, I may even join them myself.#
Captain's log, Delta Flyer, stardate, 53764.3. We've been running on minimal power for six hours. Still no response to our distress call, and no answers from the computer on what hit us. For now, it looks like we're on our own.#
Captain's log, stardate 53849.2. The stolen property has been returned to the Telsian miners, as well as vessels from seven different worlds. I'm hoping that the reputation of the real Federation will survive the events of the last several days.#
CHORUS: Captain's log, stardate 53896. B'Elanna Torres has requested permission to take the Delta Flyer and search for dilithium. Shining Voyager, far from home, far from the gleaming cities of Earth.#
Captain's log, stardate 54129.4. It's a bittersweet day for the crew of Voyager. We've finally found a home for some of our most precious cargo.#
Captain's log, stardate 54058.6. Our request to enter the Delta Flyer into the rally has been accepted. I'm meeting with the race coordinator, Ambassador O'Zaal, to work out the details.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Antarians have invited us to participate in the post-race festivities, which has allowed me to give two of my senior officers time off for a well-deserved romantic getaway. The Delta Flyer still needs a new warp core, but I don't think they're in a hurry to get anywhere.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Chakotay and B'Elanna are the latest victims of our mysterious assailant. I've decided to put the ship on a Level ten security alert. Non-essential personnel are confined to quarters, and security teams have been posted on all decks.#
CHAKOTAY : Captain's log, stardate 54101. Voyager is now under my command. We're en route to an M class planet where we'ill relocate the Starfleet crew.#
Captain's log, stardate 54208.3. Last month's datastream from Starfleet never arrived, so the crew is looking forward to this one with even more anticipation than usual. We could all use some news from home.#
Captain's log, supplemental. With the help of the Barclay hologram, we've nearly completed the modifications to Voyager. As for Reg, he's becoming extremely popular with the crew.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Seven of Nine has recovered from her injuries, and Reg has been deactivated. Until we finish analysing his programme, his motivations remain a mystery.#
Captain's log, stardate 54337.5. The surviving Hirogen have recovered from their injuries, leaving me with a diplomatic dilemma.#
Captain's log, stardate 54238.3. We've completed our maintenance layover at the Maldorian station and we're on our way to rendezvous with the Delta Flyer. We expect to reach them in forty eight hours.#
Captain's log, stardate 54274.7. Lieutenant Torres has finally convinced me that I can't put off a major maintenance overhaul any longer. We've set down on an uninhabited planet, and I've sent shuttles to search for supplies.#
KIM : Acting Captain's log, stardate 54282.5. Final entry. New cloaking systems are being installed in other Kraylor ships, so I guess the mission was a success. Still, I wish I felt better about it.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Warden Yediq has used his influence to convince the Nygean family to hear Iko's appeal for leniency.#
Captain's log, stardate 54529.8. While we're helping the Klingons into their new home, life aboard Voyager is gradually returning to normal.#
Captain's log, stardate 54553.4. For the past several days, we've been making every effort to recruit members into an alliance, but it hasn't been easy.#
Captain's log, stardate 54562.7. Since Garon and the survey ship became our charter members, finding new allies has gotten a little easier. My latest prospect is Commander Bosaal, whose ship has technology that could help us escape.#
Captain's log, stardate 54704.5. It's been four days since my ultimatum to the young Q, and he appears to be making progress. His instructors inform me that he's taking on his assignments with new determination, and he's made a concerted effort to be more courteous to the crew. It's hard to believe this is the same brazen young man who came aboard a few days ago.#
Captain's log, stardate 54732.3. It's been three weeks since we received Starfleet's instructions in the last datastream and we're finally ready to begin Operation Watson. We're all holding our breath.#
Captain's log, stardate 54748.6. A Federation arbitrator has been assigned to determine whether the Doctor has the right to control his artistic creation. Because of our limited comm. time with Earth, the arguments should take about three days.#
Captain's log, stardate 54775.4. We've been searching for five days without any sign of the probe, but we're not about to disappoint Starfleet on our first official assignment in seven years.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've retrieved Friendship One and resumed our course to the Alpha Quadrant, but the success of our mission had a very high price.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Seven has remained on the surface to tend to the injured Ventu girl, while Chakotay is being treated in Sickbay.#
Captain's log, stardate 54868.6. Commander Nocona seems to have given up his attempts to penetrate the Talaxians' shield. Voyager's ready to get underway, but we're giving Mister Neelix time to say a difficult goodbye to his new friends.#
Captain's log, stardate 54912.4. Lieutenant Torres has restored our warp drive in less than a week. The Doctor's dignity, however, might take a little longer. He hasn't left Sickbay once since he returned to the ship.#
