Episode Number: 60
The Star Trek Transcripts - And The Children Shall Lead
And The Children Shall Lead
Stardate: 5029.5
Original Airdate: 11 Oct, 1968
Captain's Log, stardate 5029.5. Responding to a distress call from our scientific colony on Triacus. We are beaming down to investigate. 
[Planet surface]
(On the ground, beneath a purple sky, adults are lying motionless. Kirk, McCoy and Spock investigate. One man gets up from behind a rock.) 
KIRK: Professor Starnes? (the man has a phaser, and looks terrified.) It's Kirk. 
(The man collapses without speaking.) 
MCCOY: He's dead, Captain. 
KIRK: He didn't seem to know me. 
(Kirk takes the dead man's tricorder, then goes over to a woman and removes a vial from her mouth.) 
MCCOY: Cyalodin. 
KIRK: Self-inflicted. 
(Kirk replays the tricorder.) 
STARNES [OC]: Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy! 
KIRK: All this. Self-inflicted. Mass suicide. 
(The sound of children playing, then the kids run into the scene. There's a girl, three small boys and one older boy.) 
MARY: You missed me. 
STEVE: I did not. 
TOMMY: Hi. Who are you? 
KIRK: Kirk of the starship Enterprise. 
TOMMY: I'm Tommy Starnes. This is Mary, Steve, Ray, and Don. 
MARY: Come on. Play with us. Come on. (They make a circle and dance around Kirk.) Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down! Ring around the rosy, pocket full of posy. Ashes, ashes, we all fall down! 
Captain's log, supplementary. We have buried the members of the Starnes exploration party. Everyone has been deeply affected by what has happened here, with some important exceptions. 
[Planet surface]
(Grave markers with just surnames stand behind one or two mounds of soil. Kirk plants a UFP standard. The children have had enough.) 
MARY: Let's go and play. 
(They run off to the cave entrance and play tag) 
KIRK: No sign of grief? 
MCCOY: No, Jim. No indication of any kind. 
KIRK: Or of fear. 
MCCOY: They seem completely secure and unafraid. 
KIRK: And you insist their behaviour indicates traumatic shock? 
MCCOY: I don't insist, Jim, but I can't dismiss the possibility. 
KIRK: A child suppresses the fact that both parents are dead? I can't believe it. 
SPOCK: Humans do have an amazing capacity for believing what they choose and excluding that which is painful. 
KIRK: Not these children, to this extent. It's incredible. 
MCCOY: What those children saw is incredible, Jim. The way those deaths occurred, any reaction is possible including lacunar amnesia. That's my diagnosis. Until specific tests can be made, it remains that. 
KIRK: I'll be guided by that opinion, Doctor, for the present. What about questioning them? 
MCCOY: Not until the fabric of the traumatisation weakens or you come up with another explanation for their behaviour. Forcing them to see this experience now could cause permanent damage. 
KIRK: Accepted, Doctor. 
(One of the boys knocks over the UFP standard.) 
KIRK: Careful. 
DON: I'm, I'm sorry, Captain Kirk. 
KIRK: Children. Children, listen to me. It's late and it's time to go up to the ship. 
DON: Oh, not yet. 
MARY: But we're just beginning to have fun. 
RAY: Not now. 
KIRK: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You'll go up with the doctor. 
MCCOY: Come on. It's time to be going. 
KIRK: Whatever happened here is locked up inside those children. 
SPOCK: The attack on Professor Starnes' party must surely have been unprovoked. 
KIRK: Attack? Mass suicide is what it seems to be. 
SPOCK: I stand corrected, Captain. Induced would be a more precise term. Induced by an outside force. 
KIRK: Such as? 
SPOCK: The release of bacteria. Or a helpless mental depression and a state of suicidal anxiety could have been chemically induced. 
KIRK: What would make the children immune? 
SPOCK: I do not know, but it is possible. 
KIRK: Then the children would have been exempted by conscious design. 
SPOCK: A valid assumption, I would say. 
KIRK: And their present behaviour explained by a fear of punishment. SPOCK: Or the promise of reward. 
KIRK: An attack by an unknown assailant on an uninhabited planet. This planet is uninhabited, Mister Spock, to the best of our information? 
SPOCK: At present, yes. (his tricorder beeps) Odd. 
KIRK: Getting a reading? 
SPOCK: There seems to be some disturbance coming from that cave. 
[Cave]
KIRK: Picking up any life-forms, Mister Spock? 
SPOCK: Definitely not humanoid, Captain. Impossible to make any specific identification. The readings do not correlate with any known information. 
KIRK: (shivers) Oh, that's strange. That's very strange. I'm getting a feeling of anxiety in this place. It doesn't sound very scientific, does it? But it's strongest right here. 
SPOCK: I'm not aware of it, Captain. 
KIRK: Maybe that's what's registering on your tricorder. 
SPOCK: I am not familiar with anxiety, but I wasn't aware it could be registered on sensors. 
KIRK: No, of course. That's, that's me. That's me. But what's causing your tricorder to react? 
(Kirk dashes out of the cave.) 
[Planet surface]
SPOCK: Are you all right, Captain? 
KIRK: Yes, I'm fine. I'm fine. Just some sympathetic vibration with what happened here. Let's get back to the ship. I want to check out those tapes from Professor Starnes' tricorder. And I am going to question those children. 
[Rec room]
(I assume it is, although there are a lot more plants around the room than we usually see.) 
CHAPEL: All right, children. Each card is a different flavour. You take your pick, and the computer will mix your favourite combination. Now, what would you like? Call out your favourites. 
ALL: Vanilla! Chocolate! Cherry! Banana! 
(The kids grab cards and dash to the food dispensers.) 
CHAPEL: Well, would you like a surprise, Stevie? 
STEVE: (he gets his ice cream) It's coconut and vanilla. They're both white. 
CHAPEL: There, there now, Stevie. There are unpleasant surprises as well as pleasant ones. That was your unpleasant surprise. Now, what would you like for your pleasant surprise? 
STEVE: Chocolate wobble and pistachio. 
CHAPEL: Well, coming right up. 
STEVE: And peach. 
CHAPEL: All right. It's going to be a wonderful surprise. 
(This bowl is a lot bigger.) 
[Corridor]
MCCOY: The tests show no evidence of tensions due to lying. They behave as though nothing had gone wrong. They check out sound physically. There are no signs of any foreign biochemical substances to account for their present state. I have no answers, Jim. 
KIRK: There has to be an answer. 
MCCOY: Well, can't it wait till we get to a Starbase hospital so they can be checked out by child specialists? 
KIRK: We're not leaving here until we find out what went on or what's going on. 
MCCOY: Well, I won't prevent you questioning them, but it could harm the children if you do. 
KIRK: It could be far worse for them if I don't, and for us too. 
MCCOY: Be careful. 
[Rec room]
CHAPEL: After this, we can all play games. 
KIDS: Yeah. 
(Kirk enters.) 
CHAPEL: How do you like getting ice cream out of a computer? 
MARY: That was fun. 
KIRK: Well, well, well. You're all having such a good time, I think I'll join you. Is that all right? 
MARY: Please do. 
KIRK: I'll have a dish, too. 
CHAPEL: Oh, of course. 
KIRK: A little one. A very small one. It's better than Triacus, isn't it? 
DON: That dirty old planet? 
RAY: What's so good about that place? 
STEVE: Yeah? 
MARY: You weren't there very long. You don't know. 
KIRK: I don't think your parents liked it very much either. 
TOMMY: Yes, they did. 
STEVE: Yeah. Mine sure did. 
DON: Parents like stupid things. 
CHAPEL: Oh, I don't know about that. Parents like children. 
MARY: Ha. That's what you think. 
KIRK: I'm sure your parents loved you. That's why they took you with them to Triacus. So they wouldn't be so far away from you for such a long time. That would make them very unhappy and miss you. I'm sure that you would miss them, too. 
(There's a silence, then ) 
TOMMY: Busy, busy. 
ALL: Busy. Busy. Busy! Busy! 
(The running around starts again.) 
DON: Guess what we are. 
CHAPEL: I know. A swarm of bees. 
MARY: Watch out. Watch out. I'll sting you. 
(She rushes at Kirk and he picks her up.) 
KIRK: Now wait a minute. 
TOMMY: Can we have some more ice cream, please? 
KIRK: No, I don't think so. It'll spoil your dinner. 
TOMMY: See what I told you? They all say it. 
MARY: Yeah. 
KIRK: All right, children, you've had a busy day. I think you could use some rest. Nurse Chapel will see you to your quarters. 
CHAPEL: Very good idea, Captain. 
MARY: Aw, do we have to? 
(Chapel ushers the little ones out.) 
KIRK: Tommy, Just a moment. I'd like to ask you a question. Come and sit down. Tommy, will you tell me what you saw? 
TOMMY: Saw where? 
KIRK: In the cave, on the planet. On Triacus. 
TOMMY: You were there. 
KIRK: Did you see your father today? 
TOMMY: I saw him. 
KIRK: Did he seem upset? 
TOMMY: Yeah, he was very upset. 
KIRK: What about? 
TOMMY: I didn't ask him. 
KIRK: What was going on that would have upset him? 
TOMMY: How should I know? He was always upset, just like you, Captain Kirk. 
KIRK: I'm not upset with you, Tommy, or your friends. We invited you aboard the Enterprise. Why would I do that if I didn't like you? 
TOMMY: You have your reasons. 
KIRK: Aren't you unhappy about leaving Triacus? 
TOMMY: That place? That's for adults. 
KIRK: Aren't you upset about leaving your parents? 
TOMMY: My parents? They love it down there. Always busy. (he nearly chokes up) They're happy. Can I go now? I'm tired too, you know. 
KIRK: Yes, certainly. I'll take you. 
TOMMY: I know the way. 
(Tommy leaves.) 
KIRK: Kirk to security. Post a guard on the children. They're to be kept under constant watch. 
[Children's quarters]
(The children are in a circle, chanting.) 
ALL: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail 
(a green figure of a large man shimmers into view) 
GORGON: (echoy voice) You have done very well, my friends. You have done what must be done. You have come aboard the Enterprise. Now our destination is a Federation settlement. Captain Kirk will undoubtedly choose a closer station. Do not let that deter you. Marcos Twelve has millions of people on it. Nearly a million will join us as our friends. The rest will be our enemies. Together with our other friends who will join us, we will defeat our enemies as we defeated them on Triacus. A million friends on Marcos will make us invincible. No one will tell us where to go, when to sleep, where to eat. The universe will be mine to command, yours to play in. To accomplish this great mission, we must first control the Enterprise. To control the ship, we first must control the crew. You know how to do that. That is your next task. And as you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. As you believe, so shall you do, so shall you do. 
[Bridge]
SULU: Maintaining standard orbit, Captain. 
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, any report from the planet security team? 
UHURA: Everything is quiet, sir. 
SPOCK: (enters) Captain, I have extracted the salient portion of Professor Starnes' tapes. 
KIRK: Good. 
SPOCK: Among the technical facts he gathered, Professor Starnes also offered some rather unscientific hypotheses. 
KIRK: Let's see them. 
STARNES [on monitor]: Log date 5025.3. Ever since our arrival on Triacus, I've felt a certain growing feeling of uneasiness. At first I attributed it to the usual case of nerves associated with any new project. However, I've found that the rest of my associates are also bothered by these anxieties. The only ones not affected are the children Bless them, they find the whole thing an exciting adventure. Ah, to be young again. 
KIRK: Let's see some more of these unscientific hypotheses, Mister Spock. 
STARNES [on monitor]: (tense) 5032.4. The feeling of anxiety we've all been experiencing is growing worse. 
SPOCK: There is another portion, Captain, which I believe you'll find particularly interesting. 
STARNES [on monitor]: 5038.3. Professor Wilkins finished his excavation today. Although whatever civilisation that might have been here was destroyed by some natural catastrophe, it would appear that one of the race took refuge in the cave. (Tommy enters the Bridge) And, for our efforts, we are becoming only more apprehensive. (Tommy clenches his fist) As if some unseen force were influencing us. 
(The picture on the monitor breaks up and ends.) 
KIRK: What happened? 
SPOCK: Unknown. 
KIRK: I didn't see you come in, Tommy. 
TOMMY: Captain, after we leave here, can you take us to Marcos Twelve? 
KIRK: No. We'll probably take you to a Federation Starbase. 
TOMMY: But I have relatives on Marcos Twelve. 
KIRK: I'm sorry, Tommy. Marcos Twelve is not within our patrol area. Mister Spock, we'll pursue this in my quarters. 
TOMMY: Captain, can I stay here and watch? I'll be very quiet. 
KIRK: All right, Tommy. Lieutenant, have Doctor McCoy report to my quarters for a brief conference. Mister Leslie? 
(Kirk and Spock leave.) 
SULU: Hi there. 
TOMMY: Hi. 
(Tommy does the fist clenching thing, Sulu blinks and presses some buttons and turns the navigation dial. Enterprise leaves orbit. Mary arrives with her security guard.) 
TOMMY: What is that? 
SULU: (blissfully unaware of reality) The planet Triacus. 
TOMMY: Will we see that all the time we stay here? 
CHEKOV: Yes, we will. All the time we're here. 
MARY: He sees Triacus on the screen. 
TOMMY: He thinks he sees it. 
UHURA: (seeing reality) Mister Sulu, the screen. We're out of orbit. 
(Tommy influences her too. The planet is back.) 
MARY: Will we reach Marcos Twelve soon? 
TOMMY: Very soon. 
[Engineering]
(Don influences the crew, then Scott walks in.) 
SCOTT: When did we change course? 
MAN: We haven't changed course. 
SCOTT: What do you mean, we haven't changed course? Look at your bridge control monitor. 
MAN: We're still in orbit, sir. 
SCOTT: Have you gone completely blind? That's not orbiting position. 
MAN: Don't touch the controls, sir. 
SCOTT: What the devil do you think you're doing? 
MAN: We must remain in this orbit till the bridge orders a change. 
SCOTT: You blind fool! Can't you see in front of you? We're not in orbit. 
MAN: I will not disobey an order from the bridge. 
SCOTT: You are disobeying an order from the bridge. Now step aside. 
MAN: You're losing control of yourself. 
SCOTT: Not yet. 
(Scott throws the Engineer aside to get to the controls, but the other one present grabs him. Finally the first man knocks Scott out.) 
[Kirk's quarters]
STARNES [on monitor]: I'm being influenced to do things that do not make sense. I even went so far as to call Starfleet Command to request a spaceship to be used as a transport. It was only when I couldn't tell them what I wanted to transport that I began to realise that my mind was being directed. I decided to send a dispatch to Starfleet, warning them. God forgive us. Must destroy ourselves! Alien upon us. The enemy from within. The enemy! 
SPOCK: He never completed the entry, and the dispatch was never sent. Except for scenes of family life, games and picnics with the children, that is the complete record. Whatever overwhelmed them must have done so with incredible speed. Otherwise, the professor would have provided details of the experience. He was an excellent scientist and tireless in his pursuit of the truth. 
KIRK: That could be what destroyed him. 
SPOCK: Possible, Captain. Evil does seek to maintain power by suppressing the truth. 
MCCOY: Or by misleading the innocent. 
KIRK: Misleading the innocent? I wonder. 
MCCOY: Do you mean the children may be involved? 
KIRK: Yes, Doctor. Spock what do we know about the race that lived here? 
SPOCK: According to the legend, Triacus was the seat of a band of marauders who made constant war throughout the system of Epsilon Indi. After many centuries, the destroyers were themselves destroyed by those they had preyed upon. 
KIRK: Is that the end of it? 
SPOCK: No, like so many legends, this one too has a frightening ending. It warns that the evil is awaiting a catalyst to set it again into motion and send it marauding across the galaxy. 
KIRK: Is it possible that the evil found the catalyst? 
SPOCK: I was speaking of a legend, Captain. 
KIRK: But most legends have their basis in fact, Spock. 
MCCOY: I think I read you, Jim, but as medical officer I must warn you that unless the normal grief is tapped and released from these children, you are treading dangerously. 
KIRK: I understand your diagnosis, Doctor, and I'll respect it. But not to the exclusion and safety of the Enterprise. Thank you. 
(McCoy leaves.) 
KIRK: Spock, what other expeditions have visited Triacus? 
SPOCK: According to Federation records, this is the first. 
KIRK: What was it Professor Starnes said about the unseen force? 
SPOCK: He said an unseen force was influencing him, that he recognised it, was beginning to fight it and cancelled his request for a ship. 
KIRK: A ship. Yes, a ship for Triacus. But why? By whom? (into comm.) Security detachment. Ready for relief duty on Triacus. Assemble in the transporter room immediately. I'll have some questions for that planet detachment as soon as they're beamed up. I think it's about time we found out whether Professor Starnes' enemy within is on the planet below or here onboard ship with us. Come on. 
[Transporter room]
(Two security men are already on the transporter pads.) 
KIRK: Your tour of duty will last one hour. Be prepared with your communicators at all times to report any alien beings. Don't wait to investigate. 
Beam down the guards. 
(The two men disappear.) 
KIRK: Beam up the security detachment from Triacus. (no one appears) Spock? What's wrong? 
SPOCK: I am unable to lock on to the proper co-ordinates. 
KIRK: Why not? 
SPOCK: It appears we are no longer orbiting Triacus. 
KIRK: That's impossible. If we're not orbiting Triacus, then the men I beamed down are dead. 
SPOCK: Captain, we are no longer orbiting Triacus. 
KIRK: Activate the bridge monitor screen. 
(The starfield appears on the wall monitor.) 
KIRK: Captain to Bridge. 
[Bridge]
KIRK [OC]: Mister Sulu, we're not orbiting Triacus. 
SULU: With all respects, Captain, you're wrong. I have Triacus on my screen now. 
(And all five children standing near him.) 
[Transporter room]
KIRK: You're off course. I'm coming right up. 
[Bridge]
(The children are doing their chant as Kirk and Spock rush onto the bridge.) 
ALL: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me. 
KIRK: Sulu! 
ALL: Fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, far to see, friendly Angel come to me. 
GORGON: Friends we have reached a moment of crisis. The enemy have discovered our operation, but they are too late. They no longer control the ship. We do. We shall prevail. They will take us any place we desire. Go back to your stations. Maintain your controls. If resistance mounts, call upon their beast. Their beast will serve us well. The fear in each one of them is the beast which will consume him. Remember how it was on Triacus. If they resist, so shall it be on the Enterprise. If you need me, call and I will appear. Our new goal is Marcos Twelve. It is our new beginning. We must not falter. 
(The appararition vanishes.) 
TOMMY: Go to your stations. Mary, you remain here with me. 
KIRK: Helmsman, disregard what you see on the screen, what you think you see on the screen. Set a course for Starbase Four. 
(Tommy does the fist thing and Sulu sees swords on the viewscreen.) 
KIRK: Helmsman, did you hear me? 
SULU: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, contact Starbase Four. Tell them we're bringing the children there. Tell Starfleet Command I suspect them of being alien in nature, and I want a thorough investigation made upon our arrival. 
UHURA: Aye, aye, sir. 
(For some strange reason there is a mirror in front of her, and Tommy changes what she can see in it.) 
KIRK: Lieutenant, what are you staring at? 
UHURA: I see my death. A long death. Disease and pain. I see my death. 
KIRK: Lieutenant, there's nothing there. 
UHURA: Oh, God. Captain, don't let it be. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, you make the call to Starfleet. Mister Sulu, I ordered you to change course. Mister Sulu 
SULU: Captain, stay away from the controls! If you touch them, we'll be destroyed. 
KIRK: Mister Sulu, there's nothing there. 
SPOCK: Captain, why are we bothering Starfleet? 
KIRK: That was an order, Spock. 
SPOCK: This bridge is under complete control. 
KIRK: Complete? 
SPOCK: There is no need. 
KIRK: Take a look around you. 
(Spock tries to reach for his controls, but Tommy intervenes.) 
SPOCK: I cannot obey your order, Captain. 
(A vain communications officer who cannot ignore a reflection, a helmsman who thinks he is flying the ship through a tunnel of swords... Kirk goes to the security guard.) 
KIRK: Take Mister Sulu to his quarters. He is relieved of duty. 
(But Tommy stops the guard, and everyone else, from hearing what the captain is saying. It sounds total gibberish. Only Spock manages to clear his mind.) 
KIRK: Confine them to quarters. Did you hear me? Did you hear me? 
(Tommy summons Kirk's beast to haunt him. Loss of confidence and control. Fear of indecision.) 
SPOCK: Captain, we must get off this bridge. 
KIRK: Yes, we must. I'm losing command. I'm losing my ability to command. I'm losing the Enterprise. 
[Turbolift]
KIRK: I'm losing command. I'm losing the Enterprise. The ship is sailing on and on. I'm alone. Alone. Alone. I'm losing command. 
SPOCK: Captain. 
KIRK: I've lost command. I've lost the Enterprise. 
SPOCK: Jim. 
KIRK: I've got command. I've got command. I've got command. 
SPOCK: Correct, Captain. 
[Corridor]
SPOCK: Where to, Captain? 
KIRK: Auxiliary control, my Vulcan friend. This ship is off course. 
[Auxiliary control]
KIRK: Scotty. I want you to override the bridge navigation system and plot a course for Starbase Four. 
SCOTT: I can't do that, sir. 
KIRK: Why not? 
SCOTT: These are very sensitive instruments. I will not have you upset their delicate balance. We would all be lost, forever lost. (Spock sees Don) Go away now. Go away or we'll kill you. 
KIRK: Scotty, listen to me. The Enterprise has been invaded by alien beings. Its destination is Marcos. If we take it there, millions will die the way they died at Triacus. 
(Kirk tries to jump the engineer at the controls, but he and Spock are forced away. They retreat.) 
[Corridor]
KIRK: No, I'm all right, Spock. My beast is finished. It won't return. 
SPOCK: Captain, so long as the children are present, there is danger. They are the carriers. 
KIRK: Spock, they're not the alien beings. They're children being misled. 
SPOCK: They are followers. Without followers, evil cannot spread. 
KIRK: They're children. 
SPOCK: Captain, the four hundred and thirty men and women on board the Enterprise and the ship itself are endangered by these children. 
KIRK: They don't understand the evil that they're doing. 
SPOCK: Perhaps that is true, but the evil that is within them is spreading fast, and unless we can find a way to remove it 
KIRK: We'll have to kill them. 
(Tommy and Chekov arrive with two guards.) 
Captain Kirk. 
KIRK: What is it, Ensign? 
CHEKOV: I have been instructed to place you and Mister Spock under arrest. 
KIRK: By whose order? 
CHEKOV: Starfleet Command, sir. 
KIRK: Where did you hear this order, Ensign? Now, listen to me. This order is false. I want you and your men to return to their stations. 
CHEKOV: I'm sorry, but I must insist you and Mister Spock come with me to the detention section. 
KIRK: Ensign, listen to me. 
CHEKOV: (drawing his phaser) Do not force me to kill you, sir. I will if I have to. Will you come peacefully, Captain? 
KIRK: Ensign, listen to me. This is a false order, Ensign. 
CHEKOV: I have never disobeyed an order, Captain. You know I have never 
KIRK: I know that, Ensign. You have never disobeyed an order, but an alien being is aboard this ship. 
CHEKOV: I will not disobey now! I cannot disobey! 
KIRK: Ensign, listen to me. You will disobey this order! 
Starfleet Command supersedes your order, sir! 
(Spock and Kirk jump them. Tommy's fist is working overtime to try and control the situation, but Kirk and Spock win the fight.) 
KIRK: Enough. Take these men to detention then join me on the bridge. 
[Bridge]
(Tommy is in the Captain's chair, grinning.) 
KIRK: The Enterprise will never reach Marcos Twelve. We will not be landing there. 
TOMMY: The crew will take us. The crew believes. 
KIRK: The crew does not understand. When we make them understand as I understand, they won't take you to Marcos. 
MARY: They will! They will! 
TOMMY: We are going to Marcos! We are going to follow our friend! 
KIRK: Your friend? Where is your friend? Where is that stowaway? Why does he hide? 
MARY: He will come if we call him. 
TOMMY: But we won't. We don't need him. We're not afraid of you. 
KIRK: Good. I'm glad you're not afraid of me. (Takes his seat) But your leader is afraid. What's he afraid of? 
MARY: He's not afraid of anybody. 
TOMMY: He's not afraid of anything. 
KIRK: He's afraid to be seen. And when the crew sees and hears him, they'll understand that he is not their friend, and they won't follow him. 
TOMMY: He is our friend. 
KIRK: Then let him show himself. Bring him out! Let him prove to me that he is my friend and I'll follow him to Marcos Twelve and to the ends of the universe! 
TOMMY: No! 
(Spock enters the bridge.) 
KIRK: Mister Spock, playback the chant the children sang to summon up the Gorgan. 
ALL [OC]: Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. Hail, hail, fire and snow. Call the angel, we will go. (The other children enter the bridge.) Far away, for to see, friendly Angel come to me. 
KIRK: The time has come to see the world as it is. Come on. 
(Gorgan appears.) 
GORGAN: Who has summoned me? 
KIRK: I did, Gorgan. My beast is gone. It lost its power in the light of reality. I command again, and I ordered you here. 
GORGAN: No, Captain. I command here. My followers are strong and faithful and obedient. That's why we take what is ours wherever we go. 
SPOCK: You take from those who do not know you. 
KIRK: And we know you. 
GORGAN: Then you know I must win, Captain. 
KIRK: Not if we join together to fight you. 
GORGON: Foolish. You will be destroyed. I would ask you to join me, but you are gentle, and that is a grave weakness. 
KIRK: We're also very strong. 
GORGAN: Ah, but your strength is cancelled by your gentleness. You are full of goodness. Such as you cannot be changed. You are like the parents. You must be eliminated. 
KIRK: Children, I have pictures of some of you on Triacus. I'd like to show them to you. Would you like to see them? Mister Spock, the pictures. 
GORGAN: I forbid it. 
SPOCK: Why should you fear it? 
GORGAN: I fear nothing. 
KIRK: So we were told. Mister Spock, the pictures. The children are waiting. 
(Film of the children playing with their parents appears on Spock's overhead monitor. They smile as they watch themselves having fun. Then they see their parents lying dead, and the smiles are gone.) 
GORGAN: They would not help transport us. They were against us. They had to be eliminated. 
SPOCK: Tommy's father would have destroyed you, but he recognised you too late. 
GORGAN: You are also too late. The kind ones always are. 
KIRK: Not always, Gorgan. Not this time. You can't hide from them. They see you as we see you. They know what you are. Even the children learn. 
GORGAN: You are my future generals. Together we can raise armies of followers. Go to your posts! The first great victories are upon us. You will see. We have millions of friends on Marcos Twelve. We shall exterminate all who oppose us! Our purity of purpose cannot be contaminated by those who disagree, who will not co-operate, who do not understand. They must be annihilated. 
(But now the children are crying.) 
KIRK: Don't be afraid. Look at him. Without you children, he's nothing. The evil remains within him. 
(Gorgan becomes ugly.) 
GORGAN: I command you! I command you! To your posts! Carry out your duties, or I will destroy you! You will be swept aside to make way for the strong. 
KIRK: Look how ugly he really is. Look at him and don't be afraid. 
GORGAN: Death. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all. Death to you all. 
(Gorgon fades away. Sulu's swords vanish. McCoy enters.) 
KIRK: It's all right. 
MCCOY: They're crying, Jim. I don't know how it happened, but it's good to see. 
KIRK: It's all right, Mary. It's all right. It's all right, isn't it, Doctor? 
MCCOY: Yes. It's all right. We can help them now. 
SULU: Marcos Twelve dead ahead, sir. 
KIRK: Reverse course, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
(McCoy leads the children off the bridge.) 
SULU: Course reversed, Captain. 
KIRK: Set course for Starbase Four, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Yes, sir. 

