Episode Number: 62
The Star Trek Transcripts - Is There In Truth No Beauty?
Is There In Truth No Beauty?
Stardate: 5630.7
Original Airdate: 18 Oct, 1968
Captain's log, stardate 5630.7. We have been assigned to convey the Medusans' ambassador to the Federation back to their home planet. While the thoughts of the Medusans are the most sublime in the galaxy, their physical appearance is exactly the opposite. They have evolved into a race of beings who are formless, so utterly hideous that the sight of a Medusan brings total madness to any human who sees one. 
[Transporter room]
(A man beams aboard.) 
KIRK: Mister Marvick. I am James Kirk, the Captain. 
MARVICK: Captain, what are you doing here? You'll have to leave before the Medusan ambassador arrives. 
KIRK: Yes, everything will be taken care of. This is Mister Spock, my First Officer. 
MARVICK; Oh, yes, you're the Vulcan. It's all right for you to remain, but you, Captain, and this other gentleman. 
SCOTT: Montgomery Scott, Chief Engineer. Call me Scotty. 
MARVICK: Mister Spock, do you have the visor? You must be sure to wear it. Humans who get even a glimpse of Medusans have gone insane. 
SPOCK: Thank you, Mister Marvick. I shall be wearing the visor. 
KIRK: We mustn't keep the ambassador waiting. If you'll go with Mister Scott, I'm sure the two of you will have a great deal in common. 
SCOTT: Aye, indeed. It's a rare privilege meeting one of the designers of the Enterprise. 
(Scott and Marvick leave.) 
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel to transporter control centre on the planet. 
UHURA [OC]: Aye, sir. 
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. Inform the ambassador and Doctor Jones we're ready to beam them aboard. Kirk out. Are you sure this visor will work? 
SPOCK: It has proved effective for Vulcans. 
KIRK: It's your human half I'm worried about. 
SPOCK: I shall endeavour to keep it under control. 
KIRK: Inform me when transport is complete. 
(Kirk leaves. Spock puts on the red filter visor and beams aboard a box and a woman. She removes her visor and gives the Vulcan salute.) 
SPOCK: Welcome aboard, Ambassador Kollos. I am First Officer Spock. 
MIRANDA: I'm Doctor Jones. (Spock removes his visor) The ambassador is most honoured to meet you, Mister Spock. 
(Spock fixes an anti-gravity handle to the Ambassador's box.) 
SPOCK: Captain Kirk, we are ready. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, open a channel to all decks. 
UHURA: Channel open, sir. 
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk to all ship's personnel. Clearance plans now in effect. 
[Corridor]
(Spock and Jones are wearing their visors again.) 
KIRK [OC]: Clear passageways immediately. The Ambassador will be escorted to his quarters at once. 
(The crew vacate the premises.) 
SPOCK: Doctor Jones, may I congratulate you on your assignment with Ambassador Kollos. 
MIRANDA: Thank you, but the assignment's not yet definite. It will depend upon my ability to achieve a true mind-link with the Ambassador. 
SPOCK: I'm sure you will find it a fascinating experience. 
MIRANDA: I wasn't aware that anyone had ever achieved a mind-link with the Medusans. 
SPOCK: No one ever has. I was referring to mind-links I had attempted with members of other species. 
MIRANDA: I've heard, Mister Spock, that you turned down the assignment with the Ambassador. 
SPOCK: I was unable to accept. My life is here. 
[Ambassador's quarters]
(They place the box on a table.) 
SPOCK: Spock to Bridge. We have arrived at the Ambassador's quarters. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. Notify all hands to return to stations. All right, let's take her out. Warp factor two. 
SULU: Warp factor two, sir. 
[Ambassador's quarters]
(Spock removes the anti-gravity handle.) 
SPOCK: I would appreciate an opportunity to exchange greetings with the Ambassador. 
MIRANDA: I'm sure the Ambassador would be charmed. 
(The box opens slightly, and a green light fills the room. There are images of a myriad of lights then the lid shuts again.) 
SPOCK: I almost envy you your assignment. 
MIRANDA: I see in your mind that you are tempted to take my place. 
SPOCK: Not correct, Doctor, although I am aware of your mind attempting to contact mine. Were you born a telepath? 
MIRANDA: Yes. That is why I had to study on Vulcan. 
SPOCK: I understand. May I show you to your quarters? 
MIRANDA: I think I'll stay here a bit. Ambassador Kollos often finds the process of transport somewhat unsettling. 
SPOCK: I understand. Our ship's surgeon often makes the same complaint. Do call when you are ready. 
(Spock leaves. Jones removes her visor.) 
MIRANDA: What is it he sees when he looks at you? I must know! 
(The green light fills the room.) 
[Dining room]
(The senior staff are in dress uniform - Scott with more plaid than we've seen before. Mister Marvick is present too.) 
(Kirk pours a drink while Jones toys with a red rose.) 
KIRK: I can't understand why they let you go with Kollos. 
MIRANDA: They, Captain? 
KIRK: The male population of the Federation. Didn't someone try and talk you out of it? 
MIRANDA: Now that you ask, yes. 
KIRK: Well, I'm glad he didn't succeed. Otherwise, I wouldn't have met you. 
MIRANDA: Thank you, Captain. 
KIRK: Tell me, Doctor Jones. Why isn't it dangerous for you to be with Kollos? Spock I can understand. Nothing makes an impression on him. 
SPOCK: Why, thank you, Captain. 
KIRK: You're very welcome, Mister Spock. But no human can look at Kollos, even with a visor, without going mad. How do you manage? 
MIRANDA: I spent four years on Vulcan studying their mental discipline. 
MCCOY: You poor girl. 
SPOCK: On the contrary, Doctor, I would say that Doctor Jones was indeed fortunate. 
MCCOY: Vulcan is not my idea of fun. 
MIRANDA: Joy can be many things, Doctor. On Vulcan, I learned to do things impossible to learn anywhere else. 
KIRK: To read minds? 
MIRANDA: How not to read them, Captain. 
KIRK: I don't understand. 
SPOCK: Doctor Jones was born a telepath, Captain. 
KIRK: Oh. 
MIRANDA: Vulcan was necessary to my sanity. 
SPOCK: What most humans generally find impossible to understand is the need to shut out the bedlam of other people's thoughts and emotions. 
JONES: Or of their own thoughts and emotions. I was just noticing your Vulcan IDIC, Mister Spock. Is it a reminder that, as a Vulcan, you can mind-link with the Medusans far better than I could? 
KIRK: Well, I doubt that Mister Spock would don the most revered of all Vulcan symbols merely to annoy you, Doctor Jones. 
SPOCK: As a matter of fact, I wear it this evening to honour you, Doctor. 
MIRANDA: Indeed? 
KIRK: Yes, very interesting. I might even say fascinating, but back to your mission. Doctor, do you feel any way may be found to employ Medusan navigators on starships? It would certainly solve many of our navigational problems. 
MIRANDA: The key is the mind-link that I learned on Vulcan. Once we have learned the technique of forming a corporate intelligence with the Medusans, the designers, that's where Larry comes in, can work on adapting instruments. 
MCCOY: I don't care how benevolent the Medusans are supposed to be. Isn't it suicidal to deal with something ugly enough to drive men mad? Why do you do it? 
SPOCK: I see, Doctor McCoy, you still subscribe to the outmoded notion, promulgated by your ancient Greeks, that what is good must also be beautiful. 
MARVICK: And the reverse, of course, that what is beautiful is automatically expected to be good. 
KIRK: Yes, I think most of us are attracted by beauty and repelled by ugliness. One of the last of our prejudices. At the risk of sounding prejudiced, gentlemen, here's to beauty. (they stand for the toast) To Miranda Jones, the loveliest human ever to grace a starship. 
MCCOY: How can one so beautiful condemn herself to look upon ugliness the rest of her life? Will we allow it, gentlemen? 
ALL: Certainly not. 
MIRANDA: How can one so full of joy and the love of life as you, Doctor, condemn yourself to look upon disease and suffering for the rest of your life? Can we allow that, gentlemen? 
MCCOY: To whatever you want the most, Miranda. 
KIRK: Some more Antarean brandy? (seeing her far-away look) What is it? 
MIRANDA: There's somebody nearby thinking of murder. 
KIRK: In this room? 
MIRANDA: It's gone now. 
KIRK: Who is it? Can you tell? 
MIRANDA: It isn't there anymore. Captain, would you mind if I said goodnight? 
KIRK: Of course. Perhaps I'll see 
SPOCK: I'll escort you to your quarters. 
MIRANDA: Thank you, gentlemen. You make a choice impossible. Please, stay and enjoy yourselves. It was a delightful dinner. 
KIRK: Sleep well, Miranda. 
MCCOY: Are you sure you're well enough to find your way alone? 
MIRANDA: Of course, Doctor McCoy. Please don't worry about me. 
(McCoy kisses her hand, and she leaves.) 
MCCOY: Now, where I come from, that's what we call a lady. 
KIRK: Yes, she is something special. 
MARVICK: Very special. I suggest you treat her accordingly. I've known Doctor Jones long enough to be aware of her remarkable gifts. Well, it's been a long day for me. 
SCOTT: Larry, would you like to stop off at Engineering with me? I have a few things to check and a bottle of scotch says you can't handle the controls you designed. 
MARVICK: Some other time. 
SCOTT: Good night, gentlemen. 
(Marvick and Scott leave.) 
KIRK: Good night, Scotty. You dressed up for the occasion, Spock. Very impressive. 
SPOCK: I genuinely intended to honour her, Captain. Good evening, gentlemen. 
KIRK: Good evening. Sleep well. 
(Spock leaves.) 
KIRK: Bones, what's troubling you with the girl? 
MCCOY: Well, she's not just another girl, Captain. Don't make that mistake. 
KIRK: I didn't think that for a moment. What else? 
MCCOY: I don't know what it is, exactly. She seems very vulnerable. 
KIRK: We're all vulnerable in one way or another. 
MCCOY: Of course. But there's something so very disturbing about her. 
KIRK: Meaning she's quite a woman. I agree. 
MCCOY: Good night, Jim. 
KIRK: Good night, Bones. 
[Dr. Jones' quarters]
(The doorbell buzzes.) 
MARVICK [OC]: Miranda? 
MIRANDA: Who is it? 
MARVICK [OC]: Larry. I've got to talk to you. 
MIRANDA: It's late. 
MARVICK [OC]: Please, Miranda, it's important. 
MIRANDA: All right. Come in, then. 
(Marvick enters.) 
MARVICK: I thought the dinner was never going to end. 
MIRANDA: I rather enjoyed it. 
MARVICK: Yes, I know you did. I didn't. You were so far away. 
MIRANDA: I'll be further away than that soon. 
MARVICK: Please don't talk of that. There's so little time. Please, Miranda, don't go with Kollos. 
MIRANDA: Now, we've been over this time and time again. 
MARVICK: Don't I know it. I've asked you in restaurants, in the laboratory, on one knee, on both knees. Miranda, how can you do this? 
MIRANDA: Larry, please, try to understand. 
MARVICK: I understand that you're a woman and that I'm a man, one of your own kind, and that Kollos will never be able to give you anything like this. (he kisses her but she doesn't respond) Why did I ever meet you? 
MIRANDA: I've been honest with you. I simply cannot love you the way you want me to. 
MARVICK: Miranda. 
MIRANDA: And I'm going away with Kollos. That's final. I think you'd better leave now. 
(She turns away, then gets the same impressions she had at dinner.) 
MIRANDA: So it's you! I didn't know that it was you before. Who is it you want to kill, Larry? Is it me? You mustn't keep this to yourself. I want to help you. 
MARVICK: So now you want to help me. Now I know what a mere human male has to do to get a reaction out of you. Make you think he's a patient. The great psychologist. Why don't you try being a woman for a change? 
(Marvick leaves and starts walking along the corridor. Then he stops, turns, and goes back to Kollos' quarters. The Medusan opens his box lid as Marvick draws his phaser. Larry screams and writhes about in the presence of the alien. Miranda senses something is going on. Marvick dashes out into the corridor and runs into the turbolift. Miranda comes out of her room and goes to Kollos without her visor. She picks up the phaser from the floor. Marvick assaults a crewman in another corridor. Kirk and a security detachment, followed by Spock and McCoy, arrive at Kollos' door.) 
[Corridor]
KIRK: Miranda! 
[Engineering]
MARVICK: Where's Mister Scott? 
[Corridor]
KIRK: Miranda? 
[Kollos' quarters]
(The green light is gone and the lid is closing.) 
KIRK [OC]: Miranda! 
[Engineering]
(Scott is in the upper level control area.) 
SCOTT: Ah, there, Marvick. So you couldn't resist a wee wager. 
[Corridor]
(Miranda comes out, holding a visor.) 
KIRK: Has the Ambassador been hurt? 
MIRANDA: No harm has come to the Ambassador, Captain. 
KIRK: Who could have done such a thing? 
MIRANDA: Larry Marvick. 
KIRK: Larry Marvick? Why? 
SPOCK: Do you know whether he saw the Medusan? 
MIRANDA: Yes, he did. 
SPOCK: Then insanity will surely be the result, Captain. Dangerous insanity. 
[Engineering]
SCOTT: The controls are all yours, and the bottle of scotch'll be in your room this evening if you can handle 'em. 
KIRK [OC]: Captain Kirk to all ship personnel. Red Alert. An attempt was made to murder Ambassador Kollos. The murderer is dangerously insane. He is Lawrence Marvick. Be on the watch for him. Kirk out. 
(Scott tries to get Larry away from the controls, but is thrown off. There is a fight between the madman and three of Starfleet's finest. Insanity wins and the Enterprise is sent careering off her course.) 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Explain, Lieutenant Sulu. 
SULU: I don't believe this myself, Captain, but we're travelling at warp factor eight point five. 
CHEKOV: And accelerating. 
KIRK: Get engineering, Uhura. 
UHURA: They don't answer, Captain. 
(Spock goes to the Engineering station.) 
SULU: Warp factor nine and accelerating. 
KIRK: Can't you disengage power from there, Mister Spock? 
SPOCK: Trying, Captain. Mister Chekov, your assistance, please. 
UHURA: Captain, I have engineering now. 
KIRK: Put them on intercom. 
MARVICK [OC]: We mustn't sleep! They come in your dreams! That's the worst! They suffocate in your dreams! We're making it out of here! 
KIRK: Security to engineering. 
MIRANDA: I'll go with you. 
KIRK: No. 
MIRANDA: I must. I can reach his mind. 
[Engineering]
MARVICK: We'll be safe at the boundaries of the universe! We'll be safe! 
(Kirk and three security men finally drag Marvick away from the controls, just as the ship hits the galactic boundary.) 
KIRK: Scotty, where are we? 
SCOTT: I don't know! 
MARVICK: Beyond the boundaries of the galaxy. We made it. We're safe. We're safe, Captain Kirk. 
KIRK: Bones. 
MARVICK: Oh, no. No! No, Captain. We mustn't sleep. No! No! No, they come in your dreams. That's the worst. They suffocate in your dreams. No! 
KIRK: All right. All right. 
MARVICK: No. 
KIRK: We'll take you to a place to hide. 
MARVICK: No. 
KIRK; Come on. We must stay here with the controls. Ready to speed. Speed! Speed to the next galaxy. Miranda? Miranda, you're here. With me. 
MIRANDA: Yes, Larry. I'm here. 
MARVICK: I didn't lose you. Oh, my beautiful love, I thought I'd lost you. 
MIRANDA: I am here, Larry. No. I can see what he sees. No, don't. Don't think of it! 
MARVICK: Liar! Liar! Deceiver! You're not alone! You brought it with you. It's here. It's here. You brought it with you! Liar! Liar! Liar! (he tries to strangle Miranda) Don't love her! Don't love her! She'll kill you if you love her! I love you, Miranda. 
(Marvick collapses.) 
MCCOY: He's dead, Jim. 
Captain's log, stardate 5630.8. As a result of Larry Marvick's insane fears, the Enterprise lies derelict in uncharted space. We have no way to determine our position in relation to the galaxy. We are in a completely unknown void. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Where are we? 
SPOCK: We are evidently far outside our own galaxy, judging from the lack of traceable reference points. When we exceeded warp speed factor nine point five, we apparently entered a space-time continuum. 
MCCOY: I have the autopsy report on Marvick. Heart action stopped, cause unknown. Respiration stopped, cause unknown. Brain activity stopped, cause. Shall I go on? 
KIRK: You mean he just simply died. 
MCCOY: I mean he evidently could not live with what he saw. 
KIRK: Or what he felt. Damage report, Scotty? 
SCOTT: We need some repairs, sir, but the ship is intact. 
KIRK: Position report, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Impossible to calculate. We lack data to analyse. Our instruments appear to be functioning normally, but what they tell us makes no sense. Our records are clear up to the point at which we left our galaxy. 
KIRK: Then we should be able to navigate back. 
SPOCK: Unfortunately, we lack reference points on which to plot a return course. We experienced extreme sensory distortion, and we shall do so again if we attempt to use warp speed. And we cannot re-cross the barrier using sub light speed. 
CHEKOV: A madman got us into this, and it's beginning to look as if only a madman can get us out. 
SPOCK: An entertaining suggestion, Mister Chekov, but not very helpful. 
KIRK; There is someone else aboard who might be able to help us navigate. The Medusans have developed interstellar navigation to a fine art. Could Kollos function despite the sensory distortion? 
SPOCK: Very possibly. The Medusan sensory system is radically different from ours. Perhaps for the purpose of this emergency I might become Kollos. 
KIRK: Explain. 
SPOCK: A fusion. A mind-link to create a double entity. Each of us would enjoy the knowledge and sensory capabilities of both. We will function as one being. 
KIRK: Hazards? 
SPOCK: If the link is successful there will be a tendency to lose separate identity. A necessary risk. Of course, Doctor Jones will not wish to give me permission to accomplish the mind-link. 
MCCOY: I don't think she'll want anyone to intrude in the kind of rapport she has with Kollos. 
SPOCK: Doctor Jones has shown reluctance every time I've asked to converse with Kollos. In some ways, she is still most human, Captain, particularly in the depth of her jealousy. 
KIRK: I could confine her to quarters. 
SPOCK: Not sufficient. Her telepathic powers are formidable. If it is at all possible, her mind must be so engaged that no thought of what I am doing shall intrude. 
KIRK: I think that could be arranged. 
[Conservatory]
(It's a room with lots of flowers in bloom.) 
KIRK: I may be sentimental, but this is my favourite place. Earth. 
MIRANDA: I've never been to Earth. What lovely flowers. May I touch them? 
KIRK: Certainly. 
MIRANDA: They have no scent. 
KIRK: Try these. 
(She sniffs at a rose, and pricks her finger.) 
KIRK: Let me see. It's just a thorn. I was hoping to make you forget about this today. 
MIRANDA: It doesn't hurt anymore. 
KIRK: You mustn't blame yourself because Marvick loved you. 
MIRANDA: I didn't want his love. I couldn't return it. 
KIRK: But someday, you will want human love and companionship. 
MIRANDA: Shall I tell you what human companionship means to me? A struggle, a defence against the emotions of others. At times, the emotions burst in on me. Hatred, desire, envy, pity. Pity is the worst of all. I agree with the Vulcans. Violent emotion is a kind of insanity. 
(Spock, visor in hand, is making his way along a corridor.) 
KIRK: Are you willing to spend the rest of your life with the Medusans in order to avoid human emotion? 
MIRANDA: Perhaps. 
KIRK: A meeting of minds is all very well, but what about love, Miranda? You're young, attractive and human. Sooner or later, no matter how beautiful their minds are, you're going to yearn for someone who looks like yourself, someone who isn't ugly. 
MIRANDA: Ugly. What is ugly? Who is to say whether Kollos is too ugly to bear or too beautiful to bear? 
KIRK: Miranda, I meant no insult. Please. Here we are among the roses. A very romantic setting. I wish there were moonlight, too. Moonlight would suit you very well. 
(He moves in for the usual kiss, but gets held off.) 
MIRANDA: I see you're a very complicated man. 
(Spock enters Kollos' quarters.) 
MIRANDA: Kollos, no. You mustn't let him! 
KIRK: Miranda, don't. 
MIRANDA: Let me go. You have no idea what a dangerous thing Spock is planning. We must stop him! Let me go! 
(They leave together.) 
[Corridor]
(Miranda meets Spock coming out of Kollos' quarters.) 
SPOCK: The Enterprise is at stake. It is not possible for you to be involved. 
MIRANDA: Why? I've already committed myself to mind-link when Kollos and I reach the Medusan vessel. Why put yourself in jeopardy? 
SPOCK: This is not a duty that you can assume. I am aware of the fact that your telepathic competence might be superior to mine, but there's a more important factor. The object is to pilot this ship. That is something you cannot do. 
MIRANDA: Then teach me to operate the ship. I can memorise instantly. 
MCCOY: Now wait a minute. I realise that you can do almost anything a sighted person can do, but you can't pilot a starship. 
KIRK: What? 
SPOCK: Fascinating. 
MCCOY: I'm sorry, Miranda, but you must be realistic. You are blind, and there are some things you simply cannot do. 
(Spock touches the decorated over-dress she always wears.) 
SPOCK: Evidently a highly sophisticated sensor web. My compliments to you, and to your dressmaker. 
KIRK: Yes, of course. It's the only reasonable explanation. You can't see and Kollos can't hurt you. 
SPOCK: An elegant solution. but I fail to understand why you apparently try to conceal your blindness, Doctor Jones. 
KIRK: I think I understand. You said it. Pity is the worst of all. 
MIRANDA: Pity, which I hate. Do you think you can gather more information with your eyes than I can with my sensors? I could play tennis with you, Captain Kirk. I might even beat you. I am standing exactly one metre, four centimetres from the door. Can you judge distance that accurately? I can even tell you how fast your heart is beating. 
KIRK: No, that won't be necessary. Mister Spock will make the mind-link. No other decision is possible. 
MIRANDA: No. I won't let you. 
MCCOY: Please. Do not fight us like this, Doctor Jones. I appeal to you as a colleague. Do not oppose us. 
MIRANDA: No. 
KIRK: If we can't persuade you, there is someone who can. You'll have to take this up with Kollos. For your own sake. 
(She goes into Kollos' quarters.) 
KIRK: Bones, why hadn't you told me? 
MCCOY: She would have told you herself if she had wanted you to know. I respect her privacy. 
KIRK: Yes, there's a great deal to respect about that lady. 
(There's a scream, then Miranda comes out of the room, calm and composed.) 
MIRANDA: It seems I have no choice but to obey you. 
Captain's log, supplementary. Our one chance to return to our own galaxy is dependent upon the navigational skills of the Medusan ambassador. With that end in view, Kollos has been brought to the bridge and placed behind a protective shield. 
[Bridge]
(Kollos is by Spock's station, and Spock is wearing a visor. The lid opens, then Spock comes out from behind the shield and takes off the visor.) 
SPOCK: This is delightful. I know you. All of you. James Kirk, Captain and friend for many years. And Leonard McCoy, also of long acquaintance. And Uhura, whose name means freedom. 
She walks in beauty, like the night
. 
MCCOY: That's not Spock. 
SPOCK: Are you surprised to find that I've read Byron, Doctor? 
MCCOY: That's Spock! 
KIRK: Am I addressing the Ambassador? 
SPOCK: In part. That is, part of us is known to you as Kollos. Ah, Miranda. There you are. 
O brave new world, that has such creatures in it
. 
MIRANDA: 'Tis new to thee. 
SPOCK: My world is next for us. Captain Kirk, I speak for all of us you call Medusans. I am sorry for the trouble I've brought to your ship. 
KIRK: We don't hold you to blame for what happened, and thank you now for your help. 
SPOCK: And now to the business at hand. With your permission, Captain. 
KIRK: Yes. Mister Sulu, release the helm to Mister Spock. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
SPOCK: Co-ordination is completed. 
KIRK: Then go ahead, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Warp one in six seconds. Five, four, three, two, one, zero. 
(The engines come to life, and the Enterprise glides back through the barrier.) 
SPOCK: Position report, please, Mister Chekov. 
CHEKOV: Our position? Our position is so close to the point where we entered the void, the difference isn't worth mentioning. Bull's-eye, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Thank you, Mister Chekov. Manoeuvre completed, Captain. 
KIRK: Take over, Mister Sulu. Thank you, Ambassador. Mister Chekov, plot a new course. 
CHEKOV: The new headings will be plotted in a minute, sir. 
SPOCK: How compact your bodies are. And what a variety of senses you have. This thing you call language though, most remarkable. You depend on it for so very much. But is any one of you really its master? But most of all, the aloneness. You are so alone. You live out your lives in this shell of flesh. Self-contained, separate. How lonely you are. How terribly lonely. 
KIRK: Ambassador, you must dissolve the link. 
SPOCK: So soon? 
KIRK: There must be no delay. 
SPOCK: You're a wise Captain. 
(Spock goes back behind the shield and the lid opens. Then Sulu notices the visor still on the helm console.) 
SULU: Captain. 
KIRK: Spock! Don't look! Cover your eyes! 
(Spock screams.) 
KIRK: Don't move! 
MCCOY: But, Jim. 
KIRK: No one is to move. Spock? Are you all right? 
(Spock backs away from Kollos, anguish all over his face.) 
KIRK; Spock? It's all right. You're safe with us now. 
(Spock then attacks everyone within reach. Kirk manages to get the phaser from a fallen security guard and stun his first officer.) 
MCCOY: He's hardly breathing. Help me get him to Sickbay. 
[Outside Sickbay]
(Inside, Miranda is performing a sort of mind meld on the unconscious Spock. She has removed her sensor net dress.) 
MCCOY: Unless Miranda can look down into his mind and turn it outward to us, we will lose Spock. 
KIRK: (pacing) Vulcan mind techniques. They seem so untrustworthy now that Spock's life is at stake. 
MCCOY: Her knowledge of them may be the only thing that could save Spock's sanity, perhaps even his life. 
KIRK: But does she want to? She's been in there so long. 
MCCOY: There's nothing else to be done. 
KIRK: She tried to help Marvick. Marvick is dead. 
MCCOY: That's different. Marvick loved her. 
KIRK: And Spock is her rival. Is that any better? Even Spock felt the violence of her jealousy. 
MCCOY: But they weren't rivals in love. Jim, you shouldn't go in there. 
KIRK: Whatever happens, Bones, don't interfere. 
[Sickbay]
MIRANDA: Who is it? Doctor McCoy? Who's there? 
KIRK: Captain Kirk. 
MIRANDA: I have no news for you, Captain. 
KIRK: No change? 
MIRANDA: Only that his life processes are ebbing. 
KIRK: What are you doing about it? 
MIRANDA: Why, what I can, of course. 
KIRK: Which doesn't seem to be much. 
MIRANDA: No doubt you think I can wake him with a kiss. 
KIRK: It's worth a try, isn't it? After all, he's not a machine. 
MIRANDA: But he is a Vulcan. 
KIRK: Only half. The other half is human. Far more human than you, apparently. 
MIRANDA: Face reality, Captain. His mind has gone down almost too far even for me to reach! 
KIRK: If you don't reach him soon, he'll die. But that's what you want, isn't it? 
MIRANDA: That's a lie! 
KIRK: Oh yes? You want him to die. What did you do to him on the Bridge? Did you make him forget to put the visor over his eyes? 
MIRANDA: You're insane! 
KIRK: Yes, you know your rival, don't you? You couldn't keep him from making a mind-link with Kollos, something you couldn't do yourself! With my words, I'll make you hear such ugliness as Spock saw when he looked at Kollos with his naked eyes! The ugliness is within you! 
MIRANDA: That's a lie! Liar! 
KIRK: Your desire to see Kollos is madness! You can never see him. Never. But Spock saw Kollos, and for that he must die. 
MIRANDA: Sadistic, filthy liar! 
KIRK: The smell of hatred, the stench of jealousy permeates you. Why don't you strangle him while he lies there? 
MIRANDA: Don't say anymore, please! 
KIRK: Kollos knows what's in your heart. You can lie to yourself, but you can't lie to Kollos. 
MIRANDA: Please go away! 
[Outside Sickbay]
MCCOY: What'd you say to her? 
KIRK: Maybe too much. 
MCCOY: What's she doing in there? 
KIRK: You may be right, Bones. Maybe I shouldn't have gone in. She was blind, really blind. Really in the dark. And if he dies. If he dies, how do I know that I didn't kill him? How do I know that she can stand to hear the truth? 
[Sickbay]
MIRANDA: Now, Spock, this is to the death. Or to life for both of us. 
(She touches his forehead, then we get distorted images of what Spock saw while he was insane. Finally he opens his eyes and connects with Miranda.) 
[Doctor's Office]
(The door opens, and Spock staggers in from the corridor.) 
KIRK: Spock. 
MCCOY: You look like you've paid a visit to the devil himself. 
KIRK: Miranda. 
(Kirk steps out into the corridor, but it is empty.) 
[Transporter room]
(Kollos is on the transporter pad in his box. Miranda is wearing her sensor net again. Spock is advertising the IDIC again.) 
MCCOY: You have what you wanted most. 
MIRANDA: I am one with Kollos. 
MCCOY: Well, I'm truly sorry that you're leaving. Goodbye. 
(McCoy leaves.) 
MIRANDA: We come to the end of an eventful trip, Captain. 
KIRK: I didn't think you'd even talk to me. 
MIRANDA: Well, I have you to thank for my future. Your words enabled me to see. 
KIRK: Miranda, good luck, Health. I have something for you. 
(A red rose.) 
MIRANDA: I suppose it has thorns. 
KIRK: I never met a rose that didn't. 
MIRANDA: (to Spock) I know now the great joy you felt when you joined minds with Kollos. 
SPOCK: I rejoice in your knowledge and in your achievement. 
MIRANDA: I understand, Mister Spock. The glory of creation is in its infinite diversity. 
SPOCK: And the ways our differences combine to create meaning and beauty. 
(Miranda gets on the transporter pad.) 
MIRANDA: Peace and long life, Spock. 
SPOCK: Live long and prosper, Miranda. 
KIRK: Peace. 
(Spock puts on the visor to beam Kollos and Miranda away. Kirk just watches, then leaves.) 

