Episode Number: 39
The Star Trek Transcripts - Mirror, Mirror
Mirror, Mirror
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 6 Oct, 1967
[Planet surface]
(Kirk, Scott, McCoy and Uhura are with the local leader, when lightning threatens.) 
THARN: We believe what you say, Captain Kirk, but our position has not altered. The Halkan Council cannot permit your Federation to mine dilithium crystals on our planet. 
KIRK: We have shown the council historical proof that our missions are peaceful. 
THARN: We accept that your Federation is benevolent at present, but the future is always in question. Our dilithium crystals represent awesome power. Wrongful use of that power, even to the extent of the taking of one life, would violate our history of total peace. To prevent that, we would die, Captain. As a race, if necessary. 
KIRK: I admire your ethics and hope to prove ours. Kirk to Enterprise. 
SPOCK [OC]: Spock here. 
KIRK: Report on magnetic storm, Mister Spock. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Standard ion type, Captain, but quite violent (Enterprise shakes) and unpredictable. 
[Planet surface]
KIRK: Rough ride? 
SPOCK [OC]: If we stay. 
KIRK: Stand by to beam up landing party. 
[Bridge]
KIRK [OC]: Plot an extended orbit to clear disturbance. Kirk out. 
SPOCK: Comply, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
[Planet surface]
KIRK: When may we resume discussion? 
THARN: The council will meditate further, but do not be hopeful of any change. Captain, you do have the might to force the crystals from us, of course. 
KIRK: But we won't. Consider that. Enterprise. Transporter room, energise. 
[Transporter room]
KYLE: Trouble, sir. 
(Four figures start to materialise, then disappear again. The image of Enterprise in orbit reverses itself. Finally, four figures solidify, wearing strange uniforms with gold sashes. Uhura's midriff is bare.) 
KIRK: Spock was right. It was a rough trip. 
(Spock and Kyle greet their Captain with a semi-Nazi salute. Their uniforms have changes, and Spock has grown a very fetching goatee beard.) 
SPOCK: At norm, Mister Kyle. Controls at neutral. 
KYLE: Yes, sir. 
SPOCK: Status of mission, Captain? 
KIRK: No change. 
SPOCK: Standard procedure, Captain? (Kirk nods) Mister Sulu, you will programme phaser barrage on Halkan cities. 
SULU [OC]: Yes, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Their military capability, Captain? 
KIRK: None. 
SPOCK: Regrettable that this society has chosen suicide. Mister Kyle, you were instructed to compensate during the ion storm. 
KYLE: But I tried, Mister Spock, I tried. 
SPOCK: Carelessness with the equipment cannot be tolerated. 
KYLE: But Mister Spock, I 
SPOCK: Your agoniser. 
KYLE: No, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Your agoniser, please. 
(A guard restrains Kyle and takes a device from his belt.) 
KYLE: No, Mister Spock! I tried. I really tried. 
(Spock places the device on Kyle's collar bone, and he writhes in agony. When it is removed, he collapses.) 
Captain's log, stardate unknown. During an ion storm, my landing party has beamed back to the Enterprise and found it and the personnel aboard changed. The ship is subtly altered physically. Behaviour and discipline has become brutal, savage. 
[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Mister Scott, the storm has caused some minor damage in your section. There are also injuries requiring your attention, Doctor. Well, gentlemen? 
KYLE: Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Yes. 
KYLE: The power beam jumped for a moment, sir, as the landing party was about to materialise. I never saw it happen before. 
SPOCK: Due to your error, Mister Kyle? 
KYLE: No, Mister Spock. Before. 
SPOCK: Possibly a result of the severe storm. Captain, do you feel any abnormal effects? 
KIRK: Yes. Doctor McCoy, you'd better look us over. That was a rough beam-up. 
MCCOY: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, have those transporter circuits checked. 
[Corridor]
SCOTT: Captain, what is all this? 
UHURA: How did we get in these 
KIRK: Not now. Not now. 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: What is this? Everything's all messed up and changed around, out of place. 
UHURA: Captain, what's happened? 
MCCOY: No, not everything. That spot, I spilt acid there a year ago. Jim, What in blazes is this? 
KIRK: I don't know. It's our Enterprise but it isn't. Maybe 
UHURA: Maybe what, Captain? 
KIRK: Any of you feel dizzy when we were in the transporter beam? 
UHURA: Yes. 
SCOTT: Aye. 
KIRK: When we first materialised. 
SCOTT: I did. 
KIRK: It happened twice. First we were in our own transporter chamber, then we faded, and then when we finally materialised, we were here. Wherever this is. 
SCOTT: Captain, the transporter chief mentioned a surge of power. The transporter lock might have been affected by the ion storm and we just materialised somewhere else. 
KIRK: Yes, here. Not our universe, not our ship. Something parallel. A parallel universe co-existing with ours on another dimensional plane. Everything's duplicated, almost. Another Enterprise. Spock with a beard. 
UHURA: Another Captain Kirk, another Doctor McCoy, another 
MCCOY: An exchange. If we're here 
KIRK: Then our counterparts must have been transporting up at the exact same time. Similar storms on both universes disrupted the circuits. We're here, and they're on our Enterprise. Probably asking the same questions. Are we in another universe, and if so, how do we get back to our own? They'll use the computer, and we have to. 
MCCOY: What about the Halkans? We can't let them be destroyed. 
KIRK: Scotty, can you buy me some time. Get below and short out the main phaser couplings. They'll think the storm blew the stand-by circuits. 
SCOTT: Aye, sir. 
KIRK: Then get on this technology. It's all we have to work with if we want to get back home. The intercom may be monitored. Use your communicators for private messages. Subfrequency and scramble. 
SCOTT: Aye, sir. 
(Scott leaves) 
KIRK: Lieutenant. 
UHURA: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Get to your post. Run today's communication from Starfleet Command. I want to know my exact orders and options, if any. 
UHURA: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Bones. 
UHURA: Captain, I'm 
KIRK: Uhura, you're the only one who can do it. I'll be right there. 
UHURA: Yes, sir. 
(She leaves.) 
KIRK: Bones. Let's take a look at the library. We have a lot to learn. 
[Bridge]
SULU: Mister Chekov, phaser setting for planetary target A. 
CHEKOV: Co-ordinates seven one two stroke four, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Port batteries locked. 
(Uhura enters, and goes to her station. Sulu goes over to her. He has a very nasty scar down his face.) 
SULU: Still no interest, Uhura? Hmm? I could change your mind. 
UHURA: You are away from your post, Mister. 
SULU: Is the captain here? Is Spock here? When the cat's away 
(She slaps his hand away, then Kirk enters. Everyone salutes him.) 
KIRK: Communications status. 
UHURA: No storm damage, sir. All stations report normal. (quietly) You're ordered to annihilate the Halkans unless they comply. No alternative. 
SULU: Phasers Locked on target A, Captain. Approaching optimum range. Commence fire, Captain? Captain? 
KIRK: Stand by, Mister Sulu. 
[Main Phaser Power Control]
(The door opens and a burly guard blocks Scott's entrance.) 
SCOTT: I've been ordered to check phaser couplings for possible damage by the storm. 
GUARD: Do you have authorisation from security, sir? 
SCOTT: Captain's orders. 
GUARD: I'll have to check with Security Chief Sulu, sir. 
SCOTT: Never mind. I'll attend to it. 
(He goes to an intercom.) 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Kirk here. 
[Main Phaser Power Control]
SCOTT: Phaser report, sir. No damage. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Very good. Thank you, Mister Scott. Kirk out. 
(Spock enters the Bridge.) 
SPOCK: Planet's rotation is carrying primary target beyond arc of phaser lock. 
SULU: Shall I correct orbit to new firing position? 
KIRK: No. 
SPOCK: Lock on to secondary city. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, contact the Halkan council. I wish to talk to them again. 
UHURA: Yes, sir. 
SPOCK: Captain? 
KIRK: This is a new race. They offer other things of value besides dilithium crystals. 
SPOCK: But we cannot expect their co-operation. They have refused the Empire. Command procedure dictates that we provide the customary example. 
SULU: Secondary target now moving beyond our phaser lock. 
KIRK: Put phasers on standby, Mister Sulu. 
SPOCK: A serious breach of orders, Captain. 
KIRK: I have my reasons, and I'll make them clear to you in my own good time. 
UHURA: Captain, I have the leader on the Halkan Council waiting on channel B. 
KIRK: It is useless to resist us. 
THARN [on viewscreen: We do not resist you. 
KIRK: You have twelve hours to consider your position. 
THARN [on viewscreen: Twelve years, Captain Kirk, or twelve thousand. We are ethically compelled to deny your demand for our dilithium crystals, for you would use their power to destroy. 
KIRK: We will level your planet and take what we want. That is destruction. You will die as a race. 
THARN [on viewscreen: To preserve what we are. 
KIRK: We will not argue. Twelve hours. No more. Close communications. Turn phasers off. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
SPOCK: Twelve hours, Captain? That is unprecedented. 
KIRK: I shall be in my quarters. Lieutenant Uhura, have Doctor McCoy and Mister Scott meet me there. 
(Chekov presses a couple of buttons on his console, then leaves his post.) 
SPOCK: Captain, you've placed yourself in a most grave position. This conduct must be reported. 
KIRK: You're at liberty to do so, Mister Spock. 
[Turbolift]
CHEKOV: Deck five, sir? 
(As Kirk leaves the lift, someone punches him in the face and he is grabbed.) 
[Corridor]
CHEKOV: (holding a phaser on Kirk) So you die, Captain, and we all move up in rank. No one will question the assassination of a captain who has disobeyed prime orders of the Empire. 
Captain's log, supplemental. I command an Enterprise where officers apparently employ private henchmen among the crew, where assassination of superiors is a common means of advancing in rank. 
[Corridor]
(Suddenly, one of Chekov's men turns against him, taking his weapon and shooting another. Kirk throws his final assailant and he gets zapped into molecules too. The turbolift opens and two armed men come out.) 
MAN: Your men, Captain. Easy, Farrell. I did your job. Ask the captain. 
FARRELL: Sir? 
KIRK: Yes, he did your job. 
FARRELL: Smart boy, switching to the top dog. 
KIRK: Get him out of here. 
MAN: Mister Chekov was going to make me a chief. You could make me an officer. 
KIRK: All right. You're working for me. 
MAN: A commission? 
KIRK: You're in line. You might even make captain. 
MAN: Yes, sir. 
(Kirk punches him.) 
KIRK: Not on my ship. 
FARRELL: The booth for this one, sir? 
KIRK: Yes, the booth. Carry on. 
(Chekov is taken away.) 
[Kirk's quarters]
(The three men enter warily.) 
MCCOY: Here. Here. What's this? 
KIRK: It's called blood. Watch your step. The officers move up by assassination. Chekov tried it on me. 
SCOTT: Mister Sulu is Security Chief, like the ancient Gestapo. 
MCCOY: And my Sickbay is a chamber of horrors. My assistants were betting on the tolerance of an injured man. How long it would take him to pass out from the pain. 
KIRK: Report on technology. 
SCOTT: Mostly variations in instrumentation. Nothing I can't handle. 
KIRK: Star readings? 
SCOTT: Everything's exactly where it should be, except us. 
KIRK: Let's find out where we stand. Computer. 
COMPUTER: (a male voice) Ready. 
KIRK: This is the Captain. Record security research, to be classified under my voice print or Mister Scott's. 
COMPUTER: Recorded. 
KIRK: Produce all data relevant to the recent ion storm. Correlate following hypothesis. Could a storm of such magnitude cause a power surge in the transporter circuits creating a momentary interdimensional contact with a parallel universe? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
KIRK: At such a moment, could persons in each universe, in the act of beaming, transpose with their counterparts in the other universe? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
KIRK: Could conditions necessary to such an event be created artificially using the ship's power? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
KIRK: Record procedure. Scotty, can you do it? 
SCOTT: Not by myself. I'll need help. And you'd be too conspicuous. 
MCCOY: I'm a doctor, not an engineer. 
SCOTT: Now you're an engineer. I'll have to tap the power we need from the warp engines and balance it for the four of us. 
MCCOY: Jim, the way this ship is run, what kind of people are we in this universe? 
KIRK: Let's find out. Computer. 
COMPUTER: Ready. 
KIRK: Read out official record of current command. 
COMPUTER: Captain James T. Kirk succeeded to command ISS Enterprise through assassination of Captain Christopher Pike. First action, suppression of Gorlan uprising through destruction of rebel home planet. Second action, execution of five thousand colonists on Vega Nine. 
KIRK: Cancel. Now we know. 
SCOTT: Captain? We can do it. 
KIRK: Good. 
SCOTT: We have to lay in the automatic transporter setting, but when we interrupt engine circuits to tie the power increase into the transporter, it'll show up on Sulu's security board. Of course, we'll only need a second. 
KIRK: I'll tell Uhura to create a diversion to distract Sulu, at your signal. Let's get back to our posts. Keep me advised. 
MCCOY: Jim, if we're here, what do you suppose our counterparts doing back in our universe? 
KIRK: On our Enterprise. 
[Brig]
(A furious duplicate Captain is being manhandled along the corridor by two security guards and thrown into the Brig. Uhura, Scott and McCoy are already there.) 
KIRK2: I order you, Let me go! Traitors! Spock, get these men off me! What is this? 
MCCOY2: What are you doing, Spock? 
KIRK2: You traitorous pig. I'll hang you up by your Vulcan ears. I'll have you all executed! 
SPOCK: I think not. Your authority on this ship is extremely limited, Captain. The four of you will remain her in the Brig and in custody until I discover how to return you to wherever it is you belong. 
KIRK2: Has the whole galaxy gone crazy? What kind of a uniform is this? Where's your beard? What's going on? Where's my personal guard? 
SPOCK: I can answer none of your questions at this time. 
KIRK2: All right, Spock. Whatever your game is, I'll play it. You want credits, I'll give them to you. You'll be a rich man. A command of your own? I can swing that, too. 
SPOCK: Apparently some kind of transposition has taken place. I find it extremely interesting. 
KIRK2: Spock. What is it that will buy you? Power? 
SPOCK: Fascinating. 
KIRK2: Power, Spock? I can get that for you! 
[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain, I am pleased that you frustrated Mister Chekov's plan. I should regret your death. 
KIRK: Why? 
SPOCK: I do not desire the captaincy. I much prefer my scientific duties. I am frankly content to be a lesser target. 
KIRK: Logical, as always, Mister Spock. 
(They arrive at a cylinder containing Chekov, who is writhing in agony.) 
SPOCK: The agony booth is a most effective means of discipline. I presume you've ordered full duration. 
KIRK: I haven't decided. 
SPOCK: Indeed. His act warrants death. 
KIRK: I said I haven't decided. 
SPOCK: That is, of course, your affair. Captain, may I inquire if you intend to persist in your unusual course of action regarding the Halkans? 
(They continue walking. Farrell joins Spock's personal guard walking behind his master.) 
KIRK: You heard my orders. 
SPOCK: They are, of course, in contradiction to standard Empire procedure. You cannot ignore the consequences. 
KIRK: Is that a threat? 
SPOCK: I do not threaten, Captain. I merely state facts. I have found you to be an excellent officer. Our missions together have been both successful and profitable. However, I shall not permit your aberrations to jeopardise my position. 
KIRK: Spock, do you think we should destroy the Halkans? 
SPOCK: Terror must be maintained or the Empire is doomed. It is the logic of history. 
KIRK: Conquest is easy, control is not. We may have bitten off more than we can chew. 
SPOCK: Captain, I do not wish to find myself opposing you, but if you continue on your present course, this confusing, inexplicable behaviour, 
KIRK: Is my concern, not yours. You would find me a formidable enemy. 
SPOCK: I'm aware of that, Captain. I trust that you are aware of the reverse. 
(Spock and his bodyguard leave.) 
FARRELL: Orders, sir? 
KIRK: Release Chekov. Confine him to quarters. 
FARRELL: Yes, sir. 
[Engineering]
(Scott distracts the guard outside the door so McCoy can give him a hypo.) 
MCCOY: That ought to hold him for about six hours. 
(They go to the upper level, and Scott begins his work. 
[Kirk's quarters]
(The room is dark, and a woman is lying on his bed.) 
MARLENA: I fell asleep. We had quite a time in the chem lab picking up after the storm. Nothing compared to your day, I gather. I heard about Chekov. 
KIRK: He gambled, I won. 
MARLENA: You got lucky. I'm surprised you could be caught off-guard that way. 
KIRK: I was preoccupied. 
. MARLENA: You're still in trouble with Starfleet Command. What you've got in mind this time is beyond me. You're scheming, of course. The Halkans have something you want, or, is it all some clever means to advance you to the Admiralty? Kirk. The Cabinet itself? 
KIRK: Further than that, if I'm successful. 
MARLENA: Really? Well, you must know what you're doing. You always do. If I'm to be the woman of a Caesar, can't I know what you're up to? 
(Their kiss is interrupted by the intercom.) 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Mister Spock, Captain. 
KIRK [OC]: Yes. 
SPOCK: I have received a private communication from Starfleet Command. I am committing a breach of regulations by informing you of its contents. 
[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: Yes, Mister Spock. 
[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: I am instructed to wait until planet dawn over principal target to permit you to carry out our mission. 
[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: And if I don't? 
[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: In that event, I am ordered to kill you and to proceed against the Halkans as the new captain of the Enterprise. 
Captain's log, stardate unknown. We are trapped in a savage, parallel universe from which we must escape within four hours, or I will face a death sentence at Mister Spock's hands. 
[Kirk's quarters]
MARLENA: Let's drink a toast to Spock, The only man aboard with the decency to warn you, and he'll die for it. They'll never find another man like him. 
KIRK: I don't intend to kill him. 
MARLENA: Are you going to act against the Halkans before the deadline? 
KIRK: No, but I'll avoid killing Spock. 
MARLENA: Just get him out of the way, he and his men. 
KIRK: I'll get out of his way. 
MARLENA: Shall I activate the Tantalus field? You'll at least want to monitor him, won't you? 
KIRK: Yes. 
(She touches a wall panel and it rises to reveal a screen and a collection of buttons.) 
MARLENA: I hate this thing. 
KIRK: It's not that bad. 
MARLENA: Of course not. It made you captain. How many enemies have you simply wiped out of existence by the touch of a button? Fifty? A hundred? Now, I always thought that was funny, The great, powerful Captain Kirk who owes everything to some unknown alien scientist and a plundered laboratory. 
KIRK: Well, if you don't take advantage of your opportunities 
MARLENA: You don't rise to the command of a starship or even higher. 
(She switches it on, and Spock is seen sitting at his table.) 
MARLENA: That magnificent mind of his. But it can't protect him from this. I press it and he dies. Now? 
(Kirk switches it off.) 
MARLENA: You really mean it. It doesn't matter. If Spock fails his order, he'll be killed anyway. 
KIRK: I'll see to it that the circumstances of his failure will clear him. 
MARLENA: You're not even afraid of Starfleet Command. Can your scheme bring you that much power so quickly? And what about me? How does Marlena fit in? 
KIRK: How does Marlena want to fit in? 
(She goes into the other room.) 
KIRK: Scotty. 
[Engineering]
SCOTT: Scotty here, sir. 
[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: We have to get out of here within three hours. Spock has orders to kill me unless I complete the mission. 
[Engineering]
SCOTT: We've got another deadline, too, sir. 
KIRK [OC]: Explain. 
SCOTT: The two-way matter transmission affected the local field density between the universes, and it's increasing. We've got to move fast. 
[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: How fast? 
[Engineering]
SCOTT: Half hour at the most. 
[Kirk's quarters]
KIRK: If we miss? 
SCOTT [OC]: We couldn't get out of here in a century. We're ready to bridge power from the engines to the transporter. 
[Engineering]
SCOTT: You've got to get down there and free the board so we can lock in. Give me about ten minutes. 
[Kirk's quarters]
SCOTT [OC]: I've got to complete a few more computations. 
KIRK: All right. I'll be in the transporter room in ten minutes. I'll meet you in Sickbay afterward. 
[Engineering]
SCOTT: Aye, sir. 
[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: Computer? 
COMPUTER: ready. 
SPOCK: Explain computer activity in the engineering section. 
COMPUTER: A security research is in progress. 
SPOCK: Who is conducting the research? 
COMPUTER: The Captain and Mister Scott. 
SPOCK: What is the nature of the research? 
COMPUTER: Programme is classified under voice index log. 
(A big red light starts flashing.) 
SPOCK: Why are you monitoring my communications, Mister Sulu? 
[Bridge]
SULU: My security board has detected extensive use of computer, Mister Spock. I was about to inform you. 
[Spock's quarters]
SULU [OC]: It's not hard to guess the nature of your order from Starfleet Command. I suggest a connection. The captain suspects. 
[Bridge]
SULU: He's working on escape or defence. 
[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: That is my concern. 
[Bridge]
SULU: Correct. It's your play. I hope you succeed, because the order would fall on me next and you know how Captain Kirk's enemies have a habit of disappearing. 
[Spock's quarters]
SPOCK: If I am successful, you see yourself a step nearer to the captaincy. I do not want to command the Enterprise, but if it should befall me, I suggest you remember that my operatives would avenge my death and some of them are Vulcans. 
[Kirk's quarters]
(Marlena has changed into something more comfortable.) 
MARLENA: Oiling my traps, darling. I'm afraid I'm a little out of practice. Maybe that's what happened to us? It's very hard for a working officer to shine as a woman every minute, and you demand perfection. 
KIRK: I've never seen perfection, but no woman could come closer to it. 
MARLENA: I remember when you used to talk that way. 
KIRK: I still do. 
MARLENA: Prove it. 
KIRK: I've got to go. 
MARLENA: Ship's business? An important task on the crew deck? Well, I guess it's over. Commander Kenno will take me temporarily. He's made that quite clear. I'll call a yeoman to help me with my things. 
KIRK: You don't have to do that. 
MARLENA: Are you feeling sorry for me? Do I see hesitation in your eyes about anything? I want one thing, Captain. Transfer me. On the Enterprise, I am humiliated! On another ship, I can hunt fresh game. I've got my rank, and. Don't I? I've been a captain's woman, and I like it. I'll be one again if I have to go through every officer in the fleet. 
KIRK: You could. (She turns to slap him.) I simply meant that you could be anything you want to be. 
(They kiss, long and passionate.) 
MARLENA: It's been a long time since you've kissed me like that. You're a stranger. Mercy to the Halkans, mercy to Spock, to me. Am I your woman? 
KIRK: You're the Captain's woman until he says you're not. 
(She turns on the Tantalus machine and watches him go into a turbolift.) 
[Turbolift]
KIRK: Uhura?;
UHURA [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
KIRK: Scotty's signal should be coming through any moment. You know what to do. 
UHURA [OC]: I've got a pretty good idea, sir. 
KIRK: Keep Sulu's attention off that board. 
UHURA [OC]: I'll do my best, sir. 
KIRK: Good luck. Kirk out. 
(Scott is up a Jefferies tube. He signals Uhura.) 
[Bridge]
UHURA: You aren't very persistent, Mister Sulu. The game has rules. You're ignoring them. I protest and you come back. You didn't come back. 
SULU: (wrapping his arms around her naked waist) Now you're making sense. 
UHURA: I was getting bored. Of course this isn't the time. 
(The board beeps.) 
SULU: Any time's a good time. 
(She slaps him, hard.) 
UHURA: I'm afraid I changed my mind. Again. 
SULU: You take a lot of chances, Lieutenant. 
UHURA: (drawing her dagger) So do you, Mister. So do you. Take over for me. 
(She goes into the turbolift, and guards block Sulu's way.) 
[Turbolift]
UHURA: Mister Scott, all clear. On my way to Sickbay. 
[Jefferies tube]
MCCOY: Now it's up to the captain. 
[Transporter room]
SPOCK: Please restrict your movements, Captain. 
KIRK: What are you doing? Are you going to shoot me now, Spock? I thought I had until dawn. 
SPOCK: I shall make that decision. Since your return from the planet, you've behaved in a most atypical and illogical manner. I want to know why. 
KIRK: Shoot. You're wasting time. 
SPOCK: I shall not waste time with you. You're too inflexible, too disciplined once you've made up your mind. But Doctor McCoy has a plenitude of human weaknesses, sentimental, soft. You may not tell me what I want to know, but he will. 
KIRK: You're running a big risk, Spock. 
SPOCK: I have the phaser, Captain, and I do not intend to simply disappear as so many of your opponents have in the past. If you please. Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Yes, of course. The entire landing party. Captain, stand over there. Doctor, it is time for answers. 
(Kirk knocks the phaser out of Spock's hand, and he and Scott try to fight him. Even Uhura gets pushed around. Finally, she hands Kirk a skull and he smashes it over Spock's head. He falls, unconscious.) 
KIRK: How much time, Scotty? 
SCOTT: Hardly fifteen minutes, sir. The field density between the two universes is starting to close very fast. 
MCCOY: Help me get him on the table. Well, come on. Help me get him on the table. He'll die without immediate treatment. 
KIRK: Everything laid in, Scotty? The time lag so the operator can get into the transporter chamber? 
SCOTT: All laid in, sir. Come on, McCoy! We're taking a chance of not getting back home. 
MCCOY: We'll get home. This won't take long. 
[Kirk's quarters]
{Marlena is still watching on the Tantalus screen.)
SCOTT [OC]: Fourteen minutes. We've got to go! 
MCCOY [OC]: Shut up? I can save his life. 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Do you want me to stop, Jim? It'll only take a minute. 
KIRK: He is very much like our own Mister Spock, isn't he? You've got that minute. 
[Kirk's quarters]
MCCOY [OC]: A little time, he'll live. 
[Sickbay]
(Sulu and three henchmen march in.) 
KIRK: What is this, Mister Sulu? 
SULU: Mister Spock has orders to kill you, Captain. He will succeed, apparently. You will also appear to have killed him after a fierce battle. Regrettable, but it will leave me in command. 
(Then one of the henchmen disappears, and another. Marlena presses the button again and Sulu is alone. Kirk disarms and knocks him out easily.) 
SCOTT: Captain, we've barely got ten minutes. 
KIRK: Let's go, Bones. 
MCCOY: I can't let him die, Jim. You get on to the transporter room. I'll be there in five minutes. 
KIRK: No longer. 
MCCOY: I guarantee it. Now, go on, please. 
(Kirk, Scott and Uhura leave. McCoy gives Spock an injection.) 
SPOCK: (sitting up and grabbing McCoy's arm) Why did the captain let me live? 
(He pushes him against the wall and does a mind meld.) 
SPOCK: Our minds are merging, Doctor. Our minds are one. I feel what you feel. I know what you know. 
[Transporter room]
(Marlena is waiting for them.) 
KIRK: A friend. Activate the transporter. You saved us back at Sickbay with the Tantalus field. 
MARLENA: Take me with you. 
KIRK: I can't. I'm sorry. Our power is balanced for four. There's no guarantee that we'll make it with five. All could die. Scotty? 
SCOTT: It's working, sir. 
MARLENA: But there are only three of you. 
KIRK: One is coming. I'd help you if I could, Marlena. Believe that. 
(She raises her phaser.) 
KIRK: If you kill us, you'll still stay. 
(Uhura disarms Marlena.) 
KIRK: Where's McCoy? Time, Scotty. 
SCOTT: Five minutes, sir. 
MARLENA: Do you know what they'll do to me? 
SCOTT: The power's cut, sir. They're on to us. 
KIRK: Auxiliary. 
SCOTT: Aye, it's available. 
KIRK: Can you bridge to your setup? 
SCOTT: I can get us the power, but the automatic setting is linked to the transporter main. If we bypass, that means that someone has got to operate the controls manually. 
KIRK: One of us will have to stay. 
SCOTT: I'll stay, Captain. 
KIRK: Get to the transporter chamber. You, too, Uhura. 
SCOTT: Jim. 
KIRK: That's an order, Scotty. 
SCOTT: Aye, Captain. 
MARLENA: What about me? 
KIRK: McCoy. 
(Spock enters with McCoy.) 
SPOCK: I cut the transporter power. It was necessary to delay your beam-out until I could arrive. Take him. 
(Scott guides McCoy to the transporter pad.) 
SPOCK: Engineering, re-activate main transporter circuits. 
KIRK: You're a man of integrity in both universes, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: You must return to your universe. I must have my captain back. I shall operate the transporter. You have two minutes and ten seconds. 
KIRK: In that time I have something to say. How long before the Halkan prediction of galactic revolt is realised? 
SPOCK: Approximately two hundred and forty years. 
KIRK: The inevitable outcome? 
SPOCK: The Empire shall be overthrown, of course. 
KIRK: The illogic of waste, Mister Spock. The waste of lives, potential, resources, time. I submit to you that your Empire is illogical because it cannot endure. I submit that you are illogical to be a willing part of it. 
SPOCK: You have one minute and twenty three seconds. 
KIRK: If change is inevitable, predictable, beneficial, doesn't logic demand that you be a part of it? 
SPOCK: One man cannot summon the future. 
KIRK: But one man can change the present. Be the captain of this Enterprise, Mister Spock. Find a logical reason for sparing the Halkans and make it stick. Push till it gives. You can defend yourself better than any man in the fleet. 
SCOTT: Captain, get in the chamber! 
KIRK: What about it, Spock? 
SPOCK: A man must also have the power. 
KIRK: In my cabin is a device that will make you invincible. 
SPOCK: Indeed? 
KIRK: What will it be? Past or future? Tyranny or freedom? It's up to you. 
SPOCK: It is time. 
KIRK: In every revolution, there's one man with a vision. 
SPOCK: Captain Kirk, I shall consider it. 
(He beams them away.) 
[Transporter room]
(Back on the 'proper' Enterprise, in the right uniforms.) 
KIRK: Spock. 
SPOCK: Welcome home, Captain. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: What I don't understand is how were you able to identify our counterparts so quickly? 
SPOCK: It was far easier for you as civilised men to behave like barbarians, than it was for them to behave like civilised men. I assume they returned to their Enterprise at the same time you appeared here. 
KIRK: Probably. However, that Jim Kirk will find a few changes, if I read my Spocks correctly. 
MCCOY: Jim, I think I liked him with a beard better. It gave him character. Of course almost any change would be a distinct improvement. 
KIRK: What worries me is the easy way his counterpart fitted into that other universe. I always thought Spock was a bit of a pirate at heart. 
SPOCK: Indeed, gentlemen. May I point out that I had an opportunity to observe your counterparts here quite closely. They were brutal, savage, unprincipled, uncivilised, treacherous, In every way, splendid examples of homo sapiens, the very flower of humanity. I found them quite refreshing. 
KIRK: I'm not sure, but I think we've been insulted. 
MCCOY: I'm sure. 
(A women steps out of the turbolift.) 
MARLENA: Captain Kirk. 
KIRK: Lieutenant, er, Lieutenant? 
MARLENA: Marlena Moreau. I was just assigned last week. 
KIRK: All right, Lieutenant. Carry on. 
SPOCK: You've met her before, Captain? 
KIRK: Uh, why do you ask? 
SPOCK: Your reaction, One of recognition. 
KIRK: Oh, no. No, no. We haven't met before, exactly. She just seemed a nice, likable girl. I think we could become friends. It's possible. 
(And to prove it, he leaves his chair and goes over to stand next to her.) 

