Episode Number: 9
The Star Trek Transcripts - Balance of Terror
Balance of Terror
Stardate: 1709.2
Original Airdate: 15 Dec, 1966
[Ship's Chapel]
SCOTT: The ceremony will be carried on all viewing screens, sir. 
KIRK: Good. 
MCCOY: There was a call for you from the Bridge. 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
SPOCK [OC]: Still no answer from Earth Outpost number two, Captain, and now number three's gone silent. 
KIRK: Maintain course to outpost four. Keep me informed. Kirk out. 
(At the door, a young lady in gold uniform and a pretty head-dress takes Scott's arm and is escorted into the room, to the strains of 'Here Comes The Bride'. Kirk goes to the rostrum.) 
KIRK: Since the days of the first wooden vessels, all shipmasters have had one happy privilege. That of uniting two people in the bonds of matrimony. We are gathered here today with you, Angela Martine, and you, Robert Tomlinson, in the sight of your fellows, in accordance with our laws and our many beliefs so that you may pledge your 
SULU [OC]: Alert! Alert! All decks alert! Alert! Alert! Captain to the Bridge. All decks alert. 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
SPOCK [OC]: Earth Outpost four reports they're under attack. A space vessel, identity unknown. 
KIRK: Full ahead. All decks, condition red. 
[Corridor]
SULU [OC]: All decks, condition red. All decks, condition red. 
Captain's Log, stardate 1709.2. Patrolling outposts guarding the neutral zone between planets Romulus and Remus and the rest of the galaxy, received emergency call from outpost 4. The U.S.S. Enterprise is moving to investigate and assist. 
UHURA: Outpost 4 reported under attack, sir. Then message terminates. 
SPOCK: Verified, Captain. 
SULU: Our speed is now maximum, sir. 
STILES: Position, eight minutes from Outpost four at this velocity, sir. 
KIRK: Scotty. 
SCOTT: I've talked to my engine room, sir. We'll get more speed out of her. 
KIRK: Did Outpost 4 give anything at all on the attacking vessel, Lieutenant? 
UHURA: No identification, sir. 
STILES: There can't be much doubt who's attacking, sir. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, put this star sector on our screen. Now show our position. Signal this to all decks, Lieutenant. 
UHURA: All decks standing by, sir. 
[Corridor]
KIRK [OC]: This is the Captain speaking. In our next action, we can risk neither miscalculation nor error 
[Bridge]
KIRK: By any man aboard. Listen carefully. Science Officer. 
SPOCK: Referring to the map on your screens, you will note beyond the moving position of our vessel, a line of Earth outpost stations. Constructed on asteroids, they monitor the Neutral Zone established by treaty after the Earth-Romulan conflict a century ago. 
[Sickbay]
SPOCK [OC]: As you may recall from your histories, this conflict was fought, 
[Engineering]
SPOCK [OC]: By our standards today, with primitive atomic weapons and in primitive space vessels 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Which allowed no quarter, no captives. Nor was there even ship-to-ship visual communication. Therefore, no human, Romulan, or ally has ever seen the other. Earth believes the Romulans to be warlike, cruel, treacherous, and only the Romulans know what they think of Earth. The treaty, set by sub-space radio, established this Neutral Zone, entry into which by either side, would constitute an act of war. The treaty has been unbroken since that time. Captain. 
KIRK: What you do not know and must be told is that my command orders on this subject are precise and inviolable. No act, no provocation 
[Engineering]
KIRK [OC]: Will be considered sufficient reason to violate the zone. We may defend ourselves, 
[Sickbay]
KIRK [OC]: But if necessary to avoid interspace war, 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Both these outposts and this vessel will be considered expendable. Captain out. 
STILES: We know Outpost four has been attacked, sir, so if we intercept Romulans now 
KIRK: After a whole century, what will a Romulan ship look like, Mister Stiles? I doubt they'll radio and identify themselves. 
STILES: You'll know, sir. They're painted like a giant bird-of-prey. 
KIRK: I had no idea that history was your specialty. 
STILES: Family history. There was a Captain Stiles was in the space service then. Two Commanders and several junior officers. All lost in that war, sir. 
KIRK: Their war, Mister Stiles. Not yours. Don't forget it. 
STILES; Yes, sir. 
SPOCK: Outpost two coming into sensor range, Captain. 
KIRK: Outpost 2 was the first to go silent, Lieutenant? 
UHURA: Yes, Captain, then Outpost three an hour later. 
SPOCK: Sweeping the area of Outpost two. Sensor reading indefinite. Double-checking Outpost three. I read dust and debris. Both Earth outposts gone, and the asteroids they were constructed on, pulverised. 
KIRK: Open a channel to our nearest command base. Quarter hour reports on our position and status. 
UHURA: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Call battle stations, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Battle stations. All hands to battle stations. Battle stations. Battle stations. All decks acknowledge. All decks acknowledge, sir. All stations show green. 
KIRK: Energise main phasers, Mister Styles. All weapons to full power. 
STILES: All weapons to full power. Phaser control room. 
[Phaser Control]
STILES [OC]: Energise. Acknowledge. 
ANGELA: (the bride) Phaser control acknowledging. All weapons energising to full. 
ROBERT: (the groom) Happy wedding day, almost. 
ANGELA: You won't get off my hook this easily. I'm going to marry you, Mister, battle or phaser weapons notwithstanding. 
ROBERT: Well, meanwhile, temporarily at least, I am still your superior officer. So get with it, Mister. 
TEC 1: Port weapons show ready. 
TEC 2: Starboard and midship weapons show ready. 
ANGELA: Acknowledge. All weapons batteries ready. 
[Bridge]
STILES: Outpost four now five minutes away, sir. 
SPOCK: And showing on my sensors, Captain. At least it's still there. 
UHURA: Sir, regaining contact with Outpost four. Switching to speakers. 
HANSEN [OC]: Outpost four. Do you read me, Enterprise? This is Commander Hansen. 
KIRK: Kirk here. We're minutes away, Hansen. What's your status? 
HANSEN [OC]: Outposts two, three, and eight are gone. Unknown weapon. Completely destroyed, even though we were alerted. Had our deflector shield on maximum. Hit by enormous power. First attack blew our deflector shield. If they hit us again with our deflector shield gone. Do you read me, Enterprise? 
KIRK: Confirm what hit you, Hansen. What vessel? Identity? 
HANSEN [OC]: Space vessel, only glimpse of. 
KIRK: Can you locate the intruder for us? 
HANSEN [OC]: Negative. It seems to have disappeared somehow. I have you on my screen now. Switching to visual. 
KIRK: Tie us in. 
UHURA: Tied in, sir. 
(The viewscreen shows a man in a wrecked room, surrounded by fires) 
HANSEN [on viewscreen]: Enterprise, can you see it? My command post here. We're a mile deep on an asteroid. Almost solid iron. And even through our deflectors, it did this. Can you see? 
KIRK: Affirmative. You're visual, Hansen. What do you have on the intruder? 
HANSEN [on viewscreen]: No identification. No answer to our challenge. Only a glimpse of it. Then they fired something at us, some form of high-energy plasma. Fantastic power. And then the whole vessel disappeared. But it's out there somewhere. Our sensors show that much. Enterprise, something coming on our viewing screen, coming at us fast. 
KIRK: Lock us onto your screen. 
HANSEN [on viewscreen]: Switching. Can you see it, Enterprise? Can you see it? It's becoming visible in the centre of my screen. 
(A ship appears from nowhere on the screen) 
KIRK: Do you have phaser capacity? We're still out of range. 
HANSEN: Negative. Phasers gone. Weapons crew dead. 
KIRK: Make a challenge. Warn that ship off. 
UHURA: Trying to, sir. They don't acknowledge. 
(The alien ship fires a big red plasma ball, and the viewscreen switches to Hansen as the outpost is hit, then just bright light. Back to the attacking ship, which then vanishes.) 
SPOCK: Outpost four disintegrated, Captain. 
KIRK: Position of the intruder, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Disappeared. Interesting how they became visible for just a moment. 
KIRK: When they opened fire. Perhaps necessary when they use their weapon. SPOCK: I have a blip on the motion sensor. Could be the intruder. 
KIRK: Go to full magnification. 
SULU: Screen is on full mag, sir. 
KIRK: I don't see anything. I can't understand it. 
SPOCK: Invisibility is theoretically possible, Captain, with selective bending of light. But the power cost is enormous. 
They may have solved that problem. 
UHURA: Continuing to challenge, sir. Still no response. 
KIRK: Discontinue. Contact remaining outposts. Have them signal us any sightings or sensor readings in their area. 
UHURA: Yes, sir. 
SPOCK: Blip has changed its heading. And in a very leisurely manoeuvre. They may not be aware of us. 
KIRK: Their invisibility screen may work both ways. With that kind of power consumption, they may not be able to see us. 
SPOCK: His heading is now one eleven mark fourteen. The exact heading a Romulan would take, Jim, for the Neutral Zone and home. 
KIRK: Parallel course. 
STILES: Don't you mean interception course, sir? 
KIRK: Negative. You and Mister Sulu will match its course and speed with the object on our sensors exactly, move for move. If he has sensors, I want him to think we're a reflection, an echo. Under no circumstances are you to cross into the Neutral Zone without my direct orders. 
SULU: Acknowledged, sir. 
KIRK: Cancel battle stations. All decks, standby alert. 
SULU: Cancel battle stations. 
STILES: Captain, may I respectfully remind the Captain what has happened? The Romulans have crossed the Neutral Zone, attacked our outposts, killed our men. 
KIRK: Mister Stiles. 
STILES: Add to that the fact it was a sneak attack. 
KIRK: Mister Stiles, are you questioning my orders? 
STILES: Negative, sir. I'm pointing our that we could have Romulan spies aboard this ship. 
SULU: I agree, sir. Respectfully recommend all decks maintain security alert. 
KIRK: Very well. All decks, security alert. 
SULU: Security alert, sir. 
UHURA: Picking up communication. It's from their ship. 
KIRK: Pipe it in. 
UHURA: Sounds like code, sir. 
SPOCK: I have a fix on it, Captain. I believe I can lock on it, get a picture of their Bridge. 
KIRK: Put it on the screen. 
(Up shimmers an image of a group of four humanoids around a console. One leaves his post and salutes the figure with his back to us. That figure then turns, and we see someone who looks just like - a Vulcan. Both Spock's eyebrows hit the ceiling. There's a long silence and a lot of stares.) KIRK: Decoding? 
UHURA: Cryptography is working on it, sir. 
STILES: Give it to Spock. 
KIRK: I didn't quite get that, Mister Stiles. 
STILES: Nothing, sir. 
KIRK: Repeat it. 
STILES: I was suggesting that Mister Spock could probably translate it for you, sir. 
KIRK: I assume you're complimenting Mister Spock on his ability to decode. 
STILES: I'm not sure, sir. 
KIRK: Well, here's one thing you can be sure of, Mister. Leave any bigotry in your quarters. There's no room for it on the Bridge. Do I make myself clear? 
STILES: You do, sir. 
UHURA: Transmission has been cut off. (to Spock) I made a tape of it, sir. 
SPOCK: Very well. (runs the tape through his computer) 
SULU: Something visual ahead, Captain, at extreme range. He's changing course, sir. 
KIRK: Stay with him, helm. 
SULU: Turning, sir. 
[Romulan ship]
(We're given a lovely shot of the bird painted on it's belly) 
COMMANDER: We grow visible. Attend the cloaking system. 
ROMULAN: It consumes much power, Commander. With no enemy to concern us. 
COMMANDER: That Earth outpost called to an Earth vessel. Now it follows us. 
ROMULAN: Which neither retreats nor grows nearer. It turns as we turn. Commander, it is our judgment we run from a reflection. 
COMMANDER: Perhaps so, but my judgment prevails. 
ROMULAN: Cloaking system on, sir. 
COMMANDER: It is good we approach the Neutral Zone. Not too soon for me to see the stars of home. I know they are following. 
CENTURION: (an older man) If an Earth ship, why does he not attack? 
COMMANDER: First study the enemy, seek weakness. If I were their commander, that is what I would do. 
DECIUS: My Commander sent for Decius. 
COMMANDER: A message was dispatched. You've broken the rule of silence. 
DECIUS: Only in code, Commander. To inform our Praetor of this glorious mission. 
COMMANDER: Your carelessness might have ended this glorious mission. You're reduced two steps in rank. Return to post. 
CENTURION: Take care, Commander. He has friends, and friends of his kind mean power. And power is danger. 
COMMANDER: Danger and I are old companions. 
CENTURION: We've seen a hundred campaigns together, and still I do not understand you. 
COMMANDER: I think you do. No need to tell you what happens when we reach home with proof of the Earthmen's weakness. And we will have proof. The Earth commander will follow. He must. When he attacks, we will destroy him. Our gift to the homeland, another war. 
CENTURION: If we are the strong, isn't this the signal for war? 
COMMANDER: Must it always be so? How many comrades have we lost in this way? 
CENTURION: Our portion, Commander, is obedience. 
COMMANDER: Obedience. Duty. Death and more death. Soon even enough for the Praetor's taste. Centurion, I find myself wishing for destruction before we can return. Worry not. Like you, I am too well-trained in my duty to permit it. Continue evasive manoeuvres. Now, back to the first course. 
[Bridge]
SULU: They're turning, sir. We're staying with them. 
SPOCK: Steady on one eleven mark fourteen. Back on their original course, Captain, toward the Neutral Zone. 
KIRK: What's our position, navigator? 
STILES: We'll enter the Neutral Zone in less than an hour, sir. Assuming, of course, that we don't turn back. 
SCOTT [OC]: We now have aboard debris from Outpost four, Captain. 
KIRK: Bring it to the briefing room. Are you ready, gentlemen? 
[Briefing room]
SPOCK: From the outpost's protective shield. Cast rodinium. This is the hardest substance known to our science. 
(He crushes it with his hand) 
SPOCK: Lab theorises an enveloping energy plasma forcing an implosion. 
KIRK: Comments? 
SPOCK: Obviously, their weaponry is superior to ours, and they have a practical invisibility screen. 
MCCOY: You're discussing tactics. Do you realise what this really comes down to? Millions and millions of lives hanging on what this vessel does. 
SPOCK: Or on what this vessel fails to do, Doctor. 
KIRK: Yes, well gentlemen, the question still remains. Can we engage them with a reasonable possibility of victory? 
SCOTT: No question. Their power is simple impulse. 
KIRK: Meaning we can outrun them? 
STILES: To be used in chasing them or retreating, sir? 
KIRK: Go ahead, Mister Styles. I called this session for opinions. 
STILES: We have to attack immediately. 
KIRK: Explain. 
STILES: They're still on our side of the Neutral Zone. There would be no doubt they broke the treaty. 
SULU: Attack, without a visible target? How do we aim our phasers? 
STILES: Aim with sensors. Not accurate, but if we blanket them 
SULU: And hope for a lucky shot before they zero in on us? 
STILES: And if we don't? Once back, they'll report that we saw their weapons and ran. 
SULU: And if they could report they destroyed us? 
STILES: These are Romulans! You run away from them and you guarantee war. They'll be back. Not just one ship but with everything they've got. You know that, Mister Science Officer. You've the expert on these people, always left out that one point. Why? I'm very interested in why. 
KIRK: Sit down, Mister. 
SPOCK: I agree. Attack. 
KIRK: Are you suggesting we fight to prevent a fight? 
MCCOY: Based on what? Memories of a war over a century ago? On theories about a people we've never even met face to face? 
STILES: We know what they look like. 
SPOCK: Yes, indeed we do, Mister Stiles. And if Romulans are an offshoot of my Vulcan blood, and I think this likely, then attack becomes even more imperative. 
MCCOY: War is never imperative, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: It is for them, Doctor. Vulcan, like Earth, had its aggressive colonising period. Savage, even by Earth standards. And if Romulans retain this martial philosophy, then weakness is something we dare not show. 
SPOCK: Do you want a galactic war on your conscience? 
KIRK: Captain to Bridge. 
UHURA [OC]: This is Uhura, Captain. 
KIRK: What's our position? 
UHURA [OC]: Course unchanged, sir. Estimating treaty boundary in twenty one minutes. 
KIRK: Are you continuing to broadcast tactical reports? 
UHURA [OC]: Affirmative, Captain. 
KIRK: And at this distance? 
UHURA [OC]: Approximately three hours before receiving a reply to our first message. 
KIRK: Thank you, Lieutenant. Check our course ahead, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: A comet, magnitude seven, dead ahead, and the intruder changing course toward it. 
KIRK: Comet Icarus four. Composition? 
SPOCK: Quite ordinary. An ionised mass, a trail of frozen vapour particles. 
KIRK: And when an object passes through it, even an invisible object? 
SPOCK: It leaves a visible trail. 
KIRK: Our chance, gentlemen. Prepare to attack. All hands, battle stations. I hope we won't need your services, Bones. 
MCCOY: Amen to that. We're taking a big gamble, Jim. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Battle status? 
SULU: All stations manned, Captain. 
STILES: Phaser weapons energised. Set for proximity blast. 
SPOCK: Intruder now bearing directly for comet's tail. 
KIRK: Plot his exact point of entry, Mister Stiles. 
STILES: Computed. On the board, sir. 
KIRK: The moment he begins entering the comet's tail, he becomes visible. End run, gentlemen. We'll swing around the other side and catch him at that moment. 
SULU: Acknowledged, Captain. 
SPOCK: He's maintaining that bearing, Captain. 
KIRK: Let's get him, Mister Sulu. 
[Romulan ship]
COMMANDER: How pleasing to the eye it is. Behold a marvel in the darkness. 
CENTURION: You spoke of entrapment. 
COMMANDER: Its many particles will obscure their sensing device, Centurion. 
ROMULAN: We enter it, Commander. 
COMMANDER: Once fully obscured, we will turn suddenly back upon our adversary. 
ROMULAN: At last the screen is clear, Commander. 
COMMANDER: Clear? 
ROMULAN: Our reflection no longer follows us. 
COMMANDER: Escape manoeuvre one, quickly! 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: We're losing sensor contact, Captain. 
KIRK: Steady as she goes. Phaser crews ready? 
SULU: Phaser crew signal ready, sir. 
KIRK: He'll only be visible for a moment. Stand by. 
SULU: Sir, nothing in 
KIRK: At the last moment he must have guessed our move. Hard to starboard, helm! 
SULU: Hard to starboard. 
KIRK: He did exactly what I would have done. I won't underestimate him again. Now, fire blind. Lay down a pattern. STILES: Traverse pattern. All phasers fire. 
[Phaser control]
ROBERT: Phaser one, fire. 
CREWMAN: Phaser one, fire. 
(Pulse phaser shots go into the darkness, rocking the Romulan ship) 
ROBERT: Phaser two, fire. 
CREWMAN: Phaser two, fire. 
[Romulan ship]
(The Centurion pushes his Commander out of the way of a falling beam) 
COMMANDER: Divert all power to weapons. 
[Bridge]
SULU: Phaser overload. Control circuit burnout. 
(Spock goes under his station to put out the flames) 
SPOCK: It'll take time to correct, sir. 
SULU: Captain, are they surrendering? 
(The Romulan ship has become visible) 
KIRK: Full astern! Emergency warp speed! 
(A red plasma blast is heading towards them) 
KIRK: Do we have emergency warp? 
SULU: Full power, sir. It's still overtaking us. If we can get one phaser working, sir, one shot might detonate it. 
KIRK: Navigation? 
STILES: Estimate it'll overtake us in two minutes, sir. 
KIRK: Phasers, Mister Spock? 
SPOCK: Impossible, Captain. 
KIRK: Feed this to the space recorder and jettison immediately. 
RAND: Captain, should I continue log entry? 
KIRK: Yeoman. Affirmative. Continue log entries. 
RAND: Yes, sir. 
SULU: Ten seconds to impact. Captain, It's dissipating, sir. 
STILES: It must have a range limit. 
(Rand stands as close as humanly possible to Kirk) 
SULU: Five, four, three, two, one. Impact! 
(Everyone gets thrown about a bit) 
KIRK: Limited range. 
SPOCK: Phasers operational, Captain. Intruder bearing one eleven mark fourteen. 
KIRK: Back to his old course. 
SPOCK: He may think we're destroyed, Captain. 
KIRK: I wouldn't make that assumption. I don't think their Captain will either. 
SPOCK: Intruder holding steady. Course one eleven mark fourteen. 
KIRK: Same as before, Mister Sulu. Stay with him. 
{Romulan ship]
(The Commander tends to his injured friend) 
ROMULAN: Commander, the reflection returns. 
COMMANDER: Activate our cloak. 
ROMULAN: Commander, our fuel runs low. 
COMMANDER: Quickly! 
DECIUS: The Earth vessel? Impossible. 
ROMULAN: It moves as we move. 
COMMANDER: Its commander is not one to repeat a mistake. 
[Bridge]
STILES: We'll enter the Neutral Zone in one minute, Captain. 
MCCOY: Do we violate the treaty, Captain? 
SPOCK: They did, Doctor. 
MCCOY: Once inside, they can claim we did. A set-up. They want war, we furnish the provocation. 
SPOCK: We're still on our side, Captain. 
KIRK: Let's get them while we are. Before we enter the Neutral Zone. Full ahead, Mister Sulu. Maximum warp. 
SULU: Ahead, sir. Maximum. 
KIRK: Phasers, stand by. 
STILES: Sir, at this distance? 
KIRK: We know their Achilles heel, Mister Stiles. Their weapon takes all their energy. They must become visible in order to launch it. 
STILES: A phaser hit at this distance would be the wildest stroke of luck. 
KIRK: I'm aware of that, Mister Stiles. Are phasers ready? 
STILES: Phasers show ready, sir. 
[Romulan ship]
ROMULAN: Commander! 
COMMANDER: Evasive action. The Earth ship again. 
(They are hit by phaser fire again) 
[Bridge]
STILES: Twenty seconds to Neutral Zone, sir. 
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, inform Command base, In my opinion, no option. On my responsibility, we are proceeding into the Neutral Zone. Steady as we go, Mister Sulu. Continue firing. 
[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Commander, they stay within range. I will tend to the centurion. 
COMMANDER: No need. The Centurion is dead. 
DECIUS: Why don't we fire, Commander? 
COMMANDER: No. No, he's shrewd, this starship commander. He tries to make us waste energy. He has estimated we have only enough. It is time. All debris into disposal tubes. 
DECIUS: Yes, Commander. 
COMMANDER: The body of the Centurion, too. Forgive me, my old friend, but I must use all my experience now to get home. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Motion sensor signal stopped. 
KIRK: Cease fire. 
SULU: Debris scatter ahead, sir. We've hit him. 
SPOCK: Vessel wreckage. Metal moulds, conduit, plastoform and a body, Captain. However. 
KIRK: However? 
SPOCK: Insufficient mass, sir. 
KIRK: What? 
SPOCK: Simple debris. Not a vessel, a trick. 
KIRK: Go to sensor probes. 
SPOCK: Nothing, sir. No motion out there at all. We've lost them, Captain. 
Captain's log, Stardate 1709.6. We are at the Neutral Zone. Have lost contact with the intruder. No reaction on our motion sensors but believe the Romulan vessel to be somewhere close by; With all engines and systems shut down, the Enterprise is also playing the silent waiting game in hope of regaining contact. 
[Bridge]
(The lights are being dimmed and systems shut down as they rig for silent running) 
SPOCK: Captain, I must make further repairs on the transfer coil. It's giving out again. 
KIRK: All right, Mister Spock, work quietly. 
[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Now twenty full cycles, Commander. Still no sign. I say he's been fooled. He must have gone on. 
COMMANDER: Shh. He is there, somewhere. I feel it. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Now motionless for nine hours, forty seven minutes. 
[Kirk's quarters]
(Yeoman Rand walks in without knocking, to find the Captain lying on his bed.) 
RAND: Can I get you something from the galley, sir? Coffee, at least? 
KIRK: Thank you, Yeoman. Bring it to the Bridge. I'll be there in a moment. 
RAND: Yes, sir. 
(McCoy walks in unannounced, and Rand leaves.) 
KIRK: I wish I were on a long sea voyage somewhere. Not too much deck tennis, no frantic dancing, and no responsibility. Why me? I look around that Bridge, and I see the men waiting for me to make the next move. And Bones, what if I'm wrong? 
MCCOY: Captain, I 
KIRK: No, I don't really expect an answer. 
MCCOY: But I've got one. Something I seldom say to a customer, Jim. In this galaxy, there's a mathematical probability of three million Earth-type planets. And in all of the universe, three million million galaxies like this. And in all of that, and perhaps more, only one of each of us. Don't destroy the one named Kirk. 
[Bridge]
(Spock carefully closes the cover on his repairs, and is reaching up to his station to help himself up when he accidentally touches a button, turning on a system) 
STILES: What? 
KIRK: It's all right. It's all right. 
[Romulan ship]
ROMULAN: A signal, Commander. 
COMMANDER: We have him. Move toward him. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Power on. Reverse course. He'll try to slip under us. 
SULU: Lateral power, sir. 
STILES: Coming around, sir. 
KIRK: Phasers, fire. 
STILES: Phasers, fire. 
[Romulan ship]
(They are taking damage) 
DECIUS: How, Commander. How? 
COMMANDER: He's a sorcerer, that one. He reads the thoughts in my brain. Our fuel supply all but gone and he stays out of reach. 
DECIUS: We are beaten. Can it be true? The Praetor's finest and proudest flagship beaten. 
COMMANDER: Perhaps we can yet save your Praetor's pride for him. More debris into the tubes. Decius, do we have the old-style nuclear warheads aboard? 
DECIUS: Yes Commander, but only for self-destruction. 
COMMANDER: Place one with the debris. Proximity fuse. 
DECIUS: Yes, Commander. At once. 
[Bridge]
SULU: More wreckage, sir, scattering across our path. 
KIRK: Cease fire. 
SPOCK: Debris on our scanners. 
KIRK: Analysis, quickly. 
SPOCK: Same type as before, sir, except, one metal-cased object! 
KIRK: Helm, hard over. Phasers, fire point-blank. 
STILES: Phasers, fire! 
(There's a big explosion, everyone gets thrown across the Bridge. Enterprise hangs crooked and motionless in space.) 
[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Glorious. Glorious. 
COMMANDER: Now we go home. 
DECIUS: They're at our mercy. Commander, I remind you of your duty. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Captain to Sickbay. 
MCCOY [OC]: McCoy here. 
KIRK: Casualties? 
MCCOY [OC]: Twenty two so far. Mainly radiation burns, mostly from the ship's outer areas. Could have been much, much worse, Captain. 
KIRK: Thank you, Doctor. (the lights come back on) Report, Mister Spock? 
SPOCK: Nuclear device of some kind, sir. Our phasers detonated it less than one hundred metres away. 
KIRK: Ship damage? 
SPOCK: Mainly overloads and circuit burnouts. 
KIRK: Weapons status? 
SCOTT [OC]: We've only the forward phaser room, Captain. 
KIRK: Fully operable, Scotty? 
SCOTT [OC]: Yes, sir. But Specialist Tomlinson is manning it alone. No standby crew available. 
STILES: Sir, my first assignment was in weapons control. 
KIRK: Go. Lieutenant Uhura, take over navigation. 
UHURA: Yes, Captain. 
SPOCK: We have engine power now, Captain, if you'd like to move off and make repairs. 
KIRK: Maybe we can pull them back to our side of the Neutral Zone. Hold our position. Play dead. 
[Romulan ship]
DECIUS: Still no sign of movement, Commander. 
COMMANDER: We've damaged ourselves. Our fuel reserve is gone. 
DECIUS: And it is our duty to crush the Praetor's enemies. 
COMMANDER: I do not trust their Captain. 
DECIUS: We are in the Neutral Zone. They will not enter. If you refuse, permit me the glory of the kill, Commander. 
COMMANDER: We will attack, but on my order. 
[Phaser control]
SPOCK: Damage reports, Mister Stiles? 
STILES: Negative. 
SPOCK: Will you require assistance here? 
STILES: This time, we'll handle things without your help, Vulcan. 
(Spock leaves. then Stiles notices purple gas escaping from a seal) 
STILES: Tomlinson! 
[Bridge]
SULU: Enemy vessel becoming visible, sir. 
KIRK: Forward phasers, stand by. (the Romulan becomes a clear image) Fire! Fire! Stiles, can you hear me? Fire! 
[Corridor]
(Spock is walking slowly when he hears the Captain's commands over the intercom) 
KIRK [OC]: Fire! Stiles, can you hear me? Fire! 
(Spock turns and runs back to Phaser Control) 
KIRK [OC]: Fire! 
[Phaser Control]
(The room is full of purple smoke) 
KIRK: Stiles, can you hear me? Fire! Stiles! 
(Spock enters just as Stiles tries and fails to reach the firing button. He activates the controls and the phaser pulses hit the Romulan ship) 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, prepare to move in on the Romulan vessel. Ship-to-ship, Uhura. Put this on the screen. 
UHURA: (still at the navigation station) Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
(The viewscreen shows a wrecked room and just the Commander still on his feet) 
KIRK: Captain. Standing by to beam your survivors aboard our ship. Prepare to abandon your vessel. 
COMMANDER [on viewscreen]: No. No, that is not our way. I regret that we meet in this way. You and I are of a kind. In a different reality, I could have called you friend. 
KIRK: What purpose will it serve to die? 
COMMANDER [on viewscreen]: We are creatures of duty, Captain. I have lived my life by it. Just one more duty to perform. 
(He goes to the control console, turns a switch, and the whole ship explodes) 
[Sickbay]
KIRK: Are you all right, Mister Spock? 
SPOCK: Yes, very well, thank you, Captain. 
KIRK: And you, Stiles? 
STILES: I'm alive, sir. But I wouldn't be. Mister Spock pulled me out of the phaser room. He saved my life. He risked his life after I 
SPOCK: I saved a trained navigator so he could return to duty. I am capable of no other feelings in such matters. 
KIRK: How many men did we lose, Bones? 
MCCOY: Only one. Tomlinson. The boy who was getting married this morning. His fianc�e is at the chapel. 
(Kirk turns to go, and Rand enters) 
RAND: We finally received an answer from Command base, sir. They say they'll support whatever decision you have to make. 
(Kirk leaves) 
[Ship's Chapel]
(Angela is kneeling in front of the altarpiece, crying, when Kirk enters. She gets up and hugs him.) 
KIRK: It never makes any sense. We both have to know that there was a reason. 
ANGELA: I'm all right. 

