Episode Number: 27
The Star Trek Transcripts - Errand of Mercy
Errand of Mercy
Stardate: 3198.4 
Original Airdate: 23 Mar, 1967
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, we've reached the designated position for scanning the coded directive tape. 
KIRK: Good. (puts it into a decoder) We both guessed right. Negotiations with the Klingon Empire are on the verge of breaking down. Starfleet Command anticipates a surprise attack. We are to proceed to Organia and take whatever steps are necessary to prevent the Klingons from using it as a base. 
SPOCK: Strategically sound. Organia is the only Class M planet in the disputed area, ideally located for use by either side. 
KIRK: Organia's description, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Inhabited by humanoids. A very peaceful, friendly people living on a primitive level. Little of intrinsic value. Approximately Class D minus on Richter's scale of cultures. 
KIRK: Another Armenia, Belgium. 
SPOCK: Sir? 
KIRK: The weak innocents who always seem to be located on the natural invasion routes. 
SULU: Captain, the automatic deflector screen just popped on. Body approaching. 
KIRK: Configuration, Mister Sulu. 
(Everyone is thrown about as the Enterprise is hit by multiple weapons fire.) 
KIRK: Phaser banks, lock on. Return fire. Maintain firing rate. One hundred percent dispersal pattern. 
SPOCK: We've hit him, Captain. He's hurt. 
KIRK: Damage control, report to the first officer. 
SULU: Captain, the other ship doesn't register. Only drifting debris. We got him. 
KIRK: All hands, maintain general alert. Hold battle stations. Damage report, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Minor, Captain. We were most fortunate. Blast damage in decks ten and eleven, minor buckling in the antimatter pods, casualties very light. 
KIRK: Maintain surveillance, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: No contact, Captain. He blew up all right. 
KIRK: Well, we've been anticipating an attack. I'd say what we've just experienced very nearly qualifies. 
SPOCK: Yes. It would seem to be an unfriendly act. 
UHURA: Automatic all-points relay from Starfleet Command, Captain, code one. 
KIRK: Well, there it is. War. We didn't want it, but we've got it. 
SPOCK: Curious how often you humans manage to obtain that which you do not want. 
KIRK: War or not, we've still got a job to do. Denying Organia to the Klingons. 
SPOCK: With the outbreak of hostilities, that might not be easy. 
KIRK: Lay in a course for Organia, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Aye, aye, sir. 
SPOCK: Negotiating with the Organians will be time-consuming, Captain, and time is one thing we'll have the least of. 
KIRK: We won't get it by talking about it. The trigger's been pulled. We have to get there before the hammer falls. Ahead warp factor seven. 
Captain's log, stardate 3198.4. We have reached Organia and established standard orbit. No signs of hostile activities in this area. 
[Bridge]
UHURA: Captain. Unit XY-75847 report a fleet of Klingon ships in their sector, sir. 
KIRK: What bearing? 
UHURA: Unable to ascertain, sir. 
KIRK: Mister Sulu, have the phaser crews stand by their positions. Full power deflector screens. 
SULU: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Mister Spock and I are going to the planet's surface. You will be in command. Your responsibility is to the Enterprise, not to us. Is that clear? 
SULU: Perfectly, sir. 
KIRK: The Klingon fleet is in this quadrant. We know that Organia will be a target. If they should emerge 
SULU: We'll handle them, sir. 
KIRK: You will evaluate the situation. If there is a fleet of them, you'll get out of here, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: But, Captain 
KIRK: No buts. You'll get to safety and alert the fleet. You will not attack alone. Mister Spock and I will be all right. Mister Spock, let's you and I pay the Organians a visit. 
[Planet surface]
(They beam down in front of a vaguely castle-styled wall which is completely smooth. The locals are dressed in romanticised rural mediaeval-style clothing, and take no notice of them at all.) 
KIRK: You'd think they had people beaming down every day. 
SPOCK: Yes. Curious lack of interest. Notice the ruins in the distance, Captain. Quite large. 
KIRK: Yes. A fortress, perhaps. A castle. 
SPOCK: Whatever it is, it would seem to be inconsistent with the reports we've been given on this culture. 
(A man in a loose purple robe opens his arms wide.) 
AYELBORNE: Welcome. 
KIRK: Reception committee? 
SPOCK: It would seem so. 
AYELBORNE: You are our visitors. Welcome, welcome. I am Ayelborne. 
KIRK: I am Captain James T. Kirk of the starship Enterprise, representing the United Federation of Planets. This is my first officer Mister Spock. 
AYELBORNE: You are most welcome, my friend. 
KIRK: I would like to speak to someone in authority. 
AYELBORNE: We don't have anybody in authority, but I am the chairman of the Council of Elders. Perhaps I would do. 
KIRK: You people are in great danger. Is there someplace we can go and talk? 
AYELBORNE: Oh, yes. Our council chambers are nearby. Please. 
SPOCK: Captain, if you don't mind, I should like to wander about the village and make some studies. 
AYELBORNE: Of course, my friend. Our village is yours. Captain. 
[Council Chamber]
(Ayelborne and four other older men seat themselves at a simple wooden table. Beautifully polished, though.) 
KIRK: Gentlemen, my government has informed me that the Klingons are expected to move against your planet with the objective of making it a base of operation against the Federation. My mission, frankly, is to keep them from doing it. 
AYELBORNE: What you're saying, Captain, is that we seem to have a choice between dealing with you or your enemies. 
KIRK: No, sir. With the Federation, you have a choice. You have none with the Klingons. The Klingons are a military dictatorship. War is their way of life. Life under the Klingon rule would be very unpleasant. We offer you protection. 
CLAYMARE: We thank you for your altruistic offer, Captain, but we really do not need your protection. 
AYELBORNE: We are a simple people, Captain. We have nothing that anybody could want. 
KIRK: You have this planet and its strategic location. I assure you that if you don't take action to prevent it, the Klingons will move against you as surely as your sun rises. We will help you build defences, build facilities. 
AYELBORNE: We have no defences, Captain, nor are any needed. 
KIRK: Gentlemen, I have seen what the Klingons do to planets like yours. They are organised into vast slave labour camps. No freedoms whatsoever. Your goods will be confiscated. Hostages taken and killed, your leaders confined. You'd be far better off on a penal planet. Infinitely better off. 
AYELBORNE: Captain, we see that your concern is genuine. We are moved. But again we assure you we are in absolutely no danger. If anybody is in danger, you are, and that concerns us greatly. It would be better if you returned to your ship as soon as possible. 
KIRK: You keep insisting there's no danger. I keep assuring you there is. Would you mind telling me 
AYELBORNE: It is our way of life, Captain. 
KIRK: That's the first thing that would be lost! Excuse me, gentlemen. I'm a soldier, not a diplomat. I can only tell you the truth. 
AYELBORNE: If you will excuse us, Captain, we will discuss your kind offer. 
KIRK: Certainly. 
(The doors open on their own and Spock enters. He and Kirk whisper in a corner.) 
SPOCK: Captain, our information on these people and their culture was not correct. This is not a primitive society making progress toward mechanisation. They are totally stagnant. There is no evidence of any progress as far back as my tricorder can register. 
KIRK: That doesn't seem likely. 
SPOCK: Nevertheless, it is true. For tens of thousands of years, there has been absolutely no advancement, no significant change in their physical environment. This is a laboratory specimen of an arrested culture. 
KIRK: Thank you, Mister Spock. That might be useful. 
AYELBORNE: We have discussed your offer, Captain. Our opinion is unchanged. We are in no danger. We thank you for your kind offer of assistance, although we must decline it, and we strongly recommend that you leave Organia before you yourselves are endangered. 
KIRK: Gentlemen, I must get you to reconsider. We can be of immense help to you. In addition to military aid, we can send you specialists, technicians. We can show you how to feed a thousand people where one was fed before. We can help you build schools, educate the young in the latest technological and scientific skills. Your public facilities are almost non-existent. We can help you remake your world, end disease, hunger, hardship. All we ask in return is that you let us help you. Now. 
AYELBORNE: Captain, I can see that you do not understand us. Perhaps 
KIRK: (answering communicator) Excuse me, sir. Kirk here. 
SULU: Captain, a large number of Klingon vessels have just arrived. 
[Bridge]
SULU: They're opening fire. 
KIRK [OC]: Positive identification? 
SULU: Yes, sir. My screens are up. I can't drop them to beam you aboard. 
[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Mister Sulu, follow your orders. Get out of here. Contact the fleet. Return if the odds are more equal. Kirk out. Gentlemen, you kept insisting that there was no danger 
AYELBORNE: That is correct, Captain. There is no danger. 
TREFAYNE: Ayelborne, eight space vehicles have assumed orbit around our planet. They are activating their material transmission units. 
AYELBORNE: Thank you, Trefayne. 
KIRK: Can you verify that? 
SPOCK: Negative, Captain, but it seems a logical development. 
AYELBORNE: Captain, since it is too late for you to escape, perhaps we should do something about protecting you. 
KIRK: If you had listened to me 
CLAYMARE: We must be sure you are not harmed. 
TREFAYNE: Ayelborne, several hundred men have appeared near the citadel. They bring many weapons. 
KIRK: How does he know that? 
AYELBORNE: Oh, our friend Trefayne is really quite intuitive. You can rest assured that what he says is absolutely correct. 
KIRK: So we're stranded here, in the middle of a Klingon occupation army. 
SPOCK: So it would seem. Not a very pleasant prospect. 
KIRK: You have a gift for understatement, Mister Spock. It's not a very pleasant prospect at all. 
Captain's Log. stardate 3201.7. Mister Spock and I are trapped on the planet Organia, which is in the process of being occupied by the forces of the Klingon Empire. The Organians have provided us with native clothing in the hopes we may be taken for Organians. 
[Council Chamber]
SPOCK: Captain, our phasers are gone. 
KIRK: Did you take them? 
AYELBORNE: Yes, Captain. I took them. 
KIRK: I must ask you to return them. 
AYELBORNE: I'm sorry, Captain. I cannot do that. Were you armed, you might be tempted to use violence, and that we cannot permit. You, Captain, will pass as an Organian, and Mister Spock. Mister Spock presents a problem. He doesn't look like an Organian. 
CLAYMARE: A Vulcan trader, perhaps. A dealer in kevas and trillium. Harmless to the Klingons. 
KIRK: They know that Vulcan is a member of the Federation. 
SPOCK: Vulcan merchants are not uncommon, Captain. It is a practical approach. 
KIRK: What about the rest of you? 
AYELBORNE: We shall continue as before. We have nothing to fear. 
KIRK: You have a lot to learn, sir. And if I know the Klingons, you'll be learning it the hard way. 
(The doors open on their own, and two Klingons march in, followed by their leader.);
KOR: This is the ruling council? 
AYELBORNE: I am Ayelborne, temporary head of the council. I bid you welcome. 
KOR: No doubt you do. I am Kor, military governor of Organia. (looking at Kirk) Who are you? 
AYELBORNE: He is Baroner, one of our leading citizens. 
KOR: And he has no tongue? 
KIRK: I have a tongue. 
KOR: Good. You will be taught how to use it. Where is your smile? 
KIRK: My what? 
KOR: The stupid, idiotic smile everyone else seems to be wearing. A Vulcan. Do you also have a tongue? 
SPOCK: I am Spock, a dealer in kevas and trillium. 
KOS: You do not look like a storekeeper. Take this man. Vulcans are members of the Federation. He may be a spy. 
KIRK: He's no spy. 
KOR: Well, have we a ram among the sheep? Do you object to us taking him? 
KIRK: He's done nothing. Nothing at all. 
KOR: Coming from an Organian, yours is practically an act of rebellion. Very good. (to the Council) So you welcome me. (to Kirk) Do you also welcome me? 
KIRK: You're here. There's nothing I can do about it. 
KOR: Good honest hatred. Very refreshing. However, it makes no difference whether you welcome me or not. I am here and will stay. You are now subjects of the Klingon Empire. You'll find there are many rules and regulations. They will be posted. Violation of the smallest of them will be punished by death. 
AYELBORNE: We shall obey your regulations, Commander. 
KOR: You disapprove, Baroner. 
KIRK: You need my approval? 
KOR: I need your obedience. Nothing more. Will I have it? 
KIRK: You seem to be in command. 
KOR: Yes. I am. I shall need a representative from among you. Liaison between the forces of the occupation and the civil population. Smile and smile. I don't trust men who smile too much. You, Baroner, you're the man. 
KIRK: Me? I don't want the job. 
KOR: Have I asked whether or not you want it? We Klingons have a reputation for ruthlessness. You will find that it is deserved. Should one Klingon soldier be killed, a thousand Organians will die. I will have order. Is that clear? 
AYELBORNE: Commander, I assure you our people want nothing but peace. We shall cause you no trouble. 
KOR: I'm sure you will not. Take the Vulcan to the examination room. (to Kirk) You, come with me. I will familiarise you with your new duties. 
KIRK: And Mister Spock? 
KOR: You are concerned? 
KIRK: He is my friend. 
KOR: You have a poor choice of friends. He will be examined. If he is lying, he will die. If he is telling the truth, he will find that business has taken a turn for the worse. Take him. You do not like to be pushed. Very good. You may be a man I can deal with, Baroner. Come with me. 
[Kor's office]
(Probably up in the old castle.) 
KOR: From this day on, no public assemblages of more than three people. All publications to be cleared through this office. Neighbourhood controls will be established, hostages selected. A somewhat lengthy list of crimes against the state. 
(Kor hands the proclamation to Kirk, who puts it down on the desk.) 
KOR: You do not like them? (Spock is brought in.) Well? 
KLINGON: He is what he claims to be, Commander, a Vulcanian merchant named Spock. His main concern seems to be how he would carry out his business under our occupation. 
KOR: Nothing else? 
KLINGON: The usual. A certain amount of apprehension regarding us. The mind is remarkably disciplined. 
KOR: You are sure? 
KLINGON: I used force four, which is sufficient to break down any pretence. 
KOR: Very well, Lieutenant. Would you like to try our little truth finder? 
KIRK: I don't understand. 
KOR: It's a mind-sifter or mind-ripper, depending on how much force is used. We can record every thought, every bit of knowledge in a man's mind. Of course, when that much force is used, the mind is emptied. Permanently, I'm afraid. What's left is more vegetable than human. 
KIRK: And you're proud of it. 
KOR: It is a tool, a weapon. Somewhat drastic, but very efficient. 
KIRK: Are you sure you're all right? 
SPOCK: Perfectly, Baroner. But it was an interesting experience. 
KOR: All right, Vulcan, you may go. But you are an enemy alien. You will be under our scrutiny at all times. If I have to warn you 
SPOCK: Not necessary, Commander. I understand you very well. 
(He leaves, followed by the guard.) 
KOR: Return to your council, Baroner. You will receive our official notifications as soon as they are published. In the meantime keep the people in order. It is your responsibility. 
KIRK: Or I will be killed. 
KOR: That is exactly right. You will be killed. 
[Village square]
KIRK: That mindsifter can't be all the terror they think it is. 
SPOCK: It should not be underestimated, Captain. It reaches directly into the mind. We Vulcans have certain mental (a Klingon walks past) certain disciplines which enable me to maintain a shield. Without those disciplines, there would be no protection. 
KIRK: I'll try and avoid it. 
KLINGON 2: Out of the way, Organian. 
SPOCK: I'm sorry, sir. We did not notice you. 
KLINGON 2: Next time, keep your eyes open, or I'll shut them permanently. 
SPOCK: Captain, I strongly suggest we direct our energies toward the immediate problem. Accomplishing our mission here. 
KIRK: You didn't really think I was going to beat his head in, did you? 
SPOCK: I thought you might. 
KIRK: You're right. But as you say, we still have a job to do. 
SPOCK: We'll receive no help from the Organians. 
KIRK: Maybe, but sooner or later they'll start resenting how the Klingons run things. If we could prove to them they could do something to strike back, to keep the Klingons off balance. 
SPOCK: Verbal persuasion seems to be ineffective. Perhaps a more direct approach? 
KIRK: That's exactly what I had in mind. Mister Spock Did I or did I not see something that looked like a munitions dump outside of Kor's headquarters? 
SPOCK: You did. 
KIRK: I think it's time we did a little simple and plain communicating. Tonight. 
SPOCK: A very meritorious idea, Captain. 
KIRK: We're short of tools. 
SPOCK: I'm certain the Klingons will provide whatever is necessary. It's a pleasure doing business with you, Mister Spock. 
[Kor's Headquarters]
(Kirk jumps one Klingon and hauls his unconscious body away. Spock primes a grenade, presumably from the munitions dump.) 
KIRK: Okay so far. Sonic grenade? 
SPOCK: With a delayed action fuse. 
KIRK; Good. 
SPOCK: These crates contain chemical explosives. They should make a most satisfactory display. 
(He casually drops the grenade into a box, and they run.) 
SPOCK: Six, five, four three. 
(There's a short but bright fireworks show.) 
KIRK: You were right, Mister Spock. A most satisfactory display. 
[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Of course we blew it up. Deliberately. 
AYELBORNE: But that was violence. 
KIRK: We did it to show you that you can fight back. You don't have to be sheep, you can be wolves. 
CLAYMARE: Terrible to destroy. 
KIRK: History is full of examples of civil populations fighting back successfully against a military dictatorship. We may not be able to destroy the Klingons, but we can tie them up. Blow up their installations, disrupt their communications, make Organia useless to them. 
SPOCK: Our fleet will eventually arrive. In the meantime, the battle is ours. It can be a successful one. 
AYELBORNE: Captain, I implore you never to do such a thing again. 
KIRK: Why? Are you afraid of retribution? Does your personal freedom mean so little to you? 
AYELBORNE: How little you understand us, Captain. 
KIRK: All I understand is that you apparently don't have the backbone to fight and protect your loved ones. 
[Kor's office]
(Of course he had the Council Chamber bugged.);
KIRK [OC]: I speak of courage, gentlemen. Does courage mean so little to you? 
[Council Chamber]
(Kor and his troops enter.) 
KOR: You speak of courage. Obviously you do not know the difference between courage and foolhardiness. Always it is the brave ones who die. The soldiers. I hope you will continue to savour the sweetness of your life. You disgust me. 
AYELBORNE: What are you going to do with him, Commander? 
KOR: What is always done with spies and saboteurs. He will be killed, after he has had first-hand experience of our mind scanner. 
AYELBORNE: There's no need to use your machine on him, commander. I can tell you his name. It is Captain James T. Kirk. 
KIRK: Ayelborne! 
KOR: What? (A big grin spreads across his face) Captain of the USS Enterprise. A starship commander. And his first officer? I had hoped to meet you in battle, but 
AYELBORNE: For some reason, he feels that he must destroy you, Commander, just as you feel you must destroy him. 
KOR: That's going to be rather difficult now. Isn't it, Captain? What an admirable people. Do you always betray your friends? 
AYELBORNE: I didn't want you to harm him. I'm sorry, Captain. It was for the best. No harm would come of it. 
KIRK: I'm used to the idea of dying, but I have no desire to die for the likes of you. 
KOR: I don't blame you, Captain. Lock up the Vulcan. Take the Captain to my office. We'll have a talk before I do what must be done. 
[Kor's office]
KOR: You'll have a drink with me, Captain? 
KIRK: No, thank you. 
KOR: I assure you it isn't drugged. With our mind-scanner, we have no need for such crude methods. 
KIRK: What do you want from me? 
KOR: Oh, a very great deal, but first I want to talk. Just talk. 
KIRK: You think I'm going to sit here and just talk with the enemy? 
KOR: You'll talk. Either here, now, voluntarily, or under our mind-scanner. The fact is, Captain, I have a great admiration for your Starfleet. A remarkable instrument. and I must confess to a certain admiration for you. I know, of course, that it was you who destroyed our supplies last night. 
KIRK: Something was destroyed? Nothing inconsequential, I hope. 
KOR: Hardly. They were quite important to us, but they can be replaced. You of the Federation, you are much like us. 
KIRK: We're nothing like you. We're a democratic body. 
KOR: Come now. I'm not referring to minor ideological differences. I mean that we are similar as a species. Here we are on a planet of sheep. Two tigers, predators, hunters, killers, and it is precisely that which makes us great. And there is a universe to be taken. 
KIRK: It's a very large universe, Commander, full of people who don't like the Klingons. 
KOR: Excellent. Then it shall be a matter of testing each other's wills. Of power. Survival must be earned, Captain. Tell me about the dispersal of your Starfleet. 
. KIRK: Go climb a tree. 
KOR: I can get what I want through our mind-scanner, but there would be very little of your mind left, Captain. I have no desire to see you become a vegetable. This friend of yours, the Vulcan. He seems to have the ability to block our scanner. I think perhaps I will find out why. I will have him dissected. Your friend killed. You, a mental vegetable. Not a pleasant prospect, Captain, but it lies ahead for you unless you tell me everything I want to know. Twelve hours, Captain. 
KIRK: It will take a lot longer than that, Commander. 
KOR: Longer than that I will not wait. I respect you, Captain, but this is war, a game we Klingons play to win. Take him to the cell with his friend. And watch him closely. 
[Cell]
(It's a traditional mediaeval castle cell, big iron grills, straw on the floor, lit by ever-burning torches in sconces on the walls.) 
SPOCK: It's no use, Jim. There's no way out. 
(Later.) 
KIRK: How much of the twelve hours do we have left? 
SPOCK: Six hours, forty three minutes, if the Klingons are punctual. 
KIRK: I think we can count on them being punctual. Blowing that munitions dump wasn't enough. If we get out of here, we've got to carry the attack directly to Kor. These Organians 
SPOCK: They do not seem to understand. Most peculiar. 
KIRK: Nevertheless, our orders still stand. We've got to make some attempt to neutralise the Klingon occupation. 
SPOCK: We may not get the chance, Captain. These walls are very thick. 
KIRK: And there are guards every few feet down the hall. 
(There are sounds outside, then the door swings silently open on it's own. Spock and Kirk are ready to pounce on whoever enters.) 
AYELBORNE: Oh, there you are, gentlemen. I trust you are in good health? Shall we go? 
KIRK: Go? 
AYELBORNE: Yes. Your captors plan to do violence to you. That we cannot permit. I came to take you away. 
KIRK: You turned us over to them. You expect us to trust you now? 
AYELBORNE: Is there really a choice, Captain? I offer you safety. 
[Council Chamber]
KIRK: We can't stay here. This is the first place they'll look. 
AYELBORNE: They will not come here, Captain. You may believe me. 
KIRK: First you turn us in, then get us out. What are you doing now, waiting for the Klingons to post a reward so you can turn us in again and collect it? 
AYELBORNE: How little you understand us, Captain. 
SPOCK: Nor do we understand what happened to the guard at the citadel. 
AYELBORNE: Please do not concern yourself about them. 
KIRK: What happened to them? 
AYELBORNE: Why, nothing happened to them, Captain. Nothing at all. 
[Kor's office]
KLINGON: Commander! 
KOR: Don't you see I'm busy? 
KLINGON: The two Federation prisoners. They're gone. 
KOR: You mean they've escaped? 
KLINGON: I swear. No one was at fault. The guards, ten of them were constantly on duty watching the cell. Then when they opened it to give them food, they simply weren't there, and there was no way out. 
KOR: If you're lying to me. 
KLINGON: I swear! 
KOR: All right, Lieutenant. Implement Special Occupation Order Number Four. Immediately! 
KLINGON: Sir! 
[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Is that's all you can do, smile? 
AYELBORNE: You are free, Captain. 
KIRK: I want to know how I'm free, and why. 
SPOCK: Indeed, there are several questions I would like to ask as well. 
KIRK: This idiotic placidity of yours, your refusal to do anything to protect yourselves 
AYELBORNE: We have already answered that question. To us, violence is unthinkable. 
KOR [OC]: Attention. Attention all Organians. Attention. This is Commander Kor. The two Federation prisoners have escaped, obviously with outside aid. 
[Kor's office]
KOR: They will be returned immediately. So that you will know we mean what we say, listen. 
[Council Chamber]
KIRK: Those are Klingon phasers. Take the door. Get down, gentlemen. 
[Kor's office]
KOR: In the courtyard of my headquarters, 
[Council Chamber]
KOR [OC]: Two hundred Organians have just been killed. 
KIRK; Two hundred of them. 
KOR [OC]: In two hours, two hundred more will die, and two hundred more after that until the two Federation spies are turned over to us. This is the order of Kor. 
KIRK: Did you hear them? 
AYELBORNE: Yes, of course, Captain. But nothing has changed. 
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock. It seems it's up to you and me. 
SPOCK: It would appear so, Captain. 
KIRK: The Federation has invested a great deal of money in our training. They're about due for a small return. We have two hours with which to do it in. 
SPOCK: But only two. More Organians will die. 
KIRK: No. No more will die on account of us, Mister Spock. Where are those phasers? 
AYELBORNE: I cannot tell you. 
KIRK: You've told us a great deal about how you hate violence. Unless you tell me where those phasers are, you're going to have more violence than you know what to do with. 
AYELBORNE: You mean you would actually use force? 
KIRK: It's entirely up to you. 
TREFAYNE: Ayelborne, this is of no matter. Perhaps you'd better let him have what he wants. He 
AYELBORNE: Very well, but it will do you no good. They're in that cabinet. 
(Spock gets them, but leaves the tricorder.) 
KIRK: Gentlemen, I have no great love for you, your planet, your culture. Despite that, Mister Spock and I are going to go out there and quite probably die, in an attempt to show you that there are some things worth dying for. 
AYELBORNE: There are only two of you against an army. Don't you realise that what you intend to do will be hopeless? 
KIRK: Come on, Mister Spock, let's get out of here. 
(The doors open politely to let them leave, then close again behind them.) 
CLAYMARE: Brave men. 
AYELBORNE: Yes, but so foolish. 
TREFAYNE: Interesting, however. 
AYELBORNE: Of course, we cannot allow it. To stop them is very bad. 
CLAYMARE: It is necessary. They may harm one another. 
AYELBORNE: Trefayne. 
TREFAYNE: They will wait until darkness. 
AYELBORNE: And then? 
TREFAYNE: Terrible. Inconceivable. Savage. 
AYELBORNE: We will wait. 
[Kor's headquarters]
(Outside, under cover of darkness and bushes.) 
KIRK: Mister Spock, can we get those two guards? What would you say the odds on our getting out of here? 
SPOCK: Difficult to be precise, Captain. I should say approximately 7,824.7 to 1. 
KIRK: Difficult to be precise? 7,824 to 1?;
SPOCK: 7,824.7 to 1. 
KIRK: That's a pretty close approximation. 
SPOCK: I endeavour to be accurate. 
KIRK: You do quite well. Set your phaser on stun. We're after the top dog, not the members of the pack. 
SPOCK: Very good. 
KIRK: But if the situation calls for it, we kill, is that clear? 
SPOCK: Clear, Captain. 
KIRK: I'll take the one on the left. Fire. 
(Two stunned Klingons fall, and Kirk and Spock run into the building.) 
[Council Chamber]
TREFAYNE: It has begun. 
AYELBORNE: Very well. 
CLAYMARE: It will be hard. 
AYELBORNE: Prepare yourselves. 
(They close their eyes and concentrate.) 
[Corridor]
KLINGON: No results, Commander. 
KOR: Nothing? 
KLINGON: I cannot understand these people. 
KOR: They know what death is, don't they? 
KLINGON: They do not seem to be worried about anything. 
KOR: Bad enough to be a military governor, but to govern a population of sheep! Very well, Lieutenant, round up two hundred more. 
KLINGON: Yes, sir. 
KOR: (going into his office) Fools! Will I have to kill them all? 
(The Klingons march off, and Kirk jumps one of them from a side corridor, getting his belt around the Lieutenant's neck.) 
KIRK: If you don't tell me what I want to know, I'll kill you here and now. Is that clear? 
KLINGON: Yes. 
KIRK: Is Kor's office down there? 
KLINGON: Yes. 
KIRK: What about the hostages? Talk. Talk. 
KLINGON: I am to gather two hundred more. 
KIRK: To be killed? 
(The Klingon nods.) 
KIRK: Mister Spock. 
(Spock knocks the Klingon out with a neck pinch.) 
KIRK: Well, what are the odds now? 
SPOCK: Less than seven thousand to one, Captain. It's remarkable we've got this far. 
KIRK: Less than seven thousand to one. Well, getting better. Getting better. 
[Kor's office]
KIRK: Just stay where you are, Commander. 
KOR: You have done well to get this far through my guards. 
SPOCK: (taking his weapon) I believe you'll find that several of them are no longer in perfect operating condition. 
KOR: So, you are here. You will be interested in knowing that a Federation fleet is on its way here at the moment. Our fleet is preparing to meet them. 
KIRK: Checkmate, Commander. 
KOR: Shall we wait and see the results before you kill me? 
KIRK: I don't intend to kill you unless I have to. 
KOR: Sentimentality, mercy. The emotions of peace. Your weakness, Captain Kirk. The Klingon Empire shall win. Think of it, as we sit here, in space above us the destiny of the galaxy will be decided for the next ten thousand years. Can I offer you a drink? We can toast the victory of the Klingon fleet. 
SPOCK: You may be premature. There are many possibilities. 
KOR: Today we conquer. If some day we are defeated, well, war has its fortunes good and bad. Do you know why we are so strong? Because we are a unit. Each of us is part of the greater whole, always under surveillance. Even a commander like myself, always under surveillance, Captain. If you will note. 
KIRK: Cover, Spock! Back! 
(The Klingons burst it, then suddenly everyone drops their weapons. Everyone.) 
KOR: Shoot! Shoot! 
(They try hand to hand, but are unable to touch each other without extreme pain. Up on the Enterprise, the crew suddenly leap out of their seats and away from their consoles.) 
[Kor's office]
KIRK: What is it, Spock? 
SPOCK: Inexplicable, Captain. Extreme heat. Not only the weapons but the bodies as well. 
(Ayelborne and Claymare come in.) 
AYELBORNE: We are terribly sorry to be forced to interfere, gentlemen, but we cannot permit you to harm yourselves. 
KOR: What are you talking about? 
CLAYMARE: We have put a stop to your violence. 
KIRK: You are stopping this? You? 
CLAYMARE: All instruments of violence on this planet now radiate a temperature of three hundred and fifty degrees. They are inoperative. 
KOR: My fleet! 
AYELBORNE: The same conditions exist on both the star-fleets. There will be no battle. 
KOR: Ridiculous! 
AYELBORNE: I suggest you contact them. You too, Captain. Your ship is now within range of your communications device. 
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. Come in. 
SULU: Captain. 
[Bridge]
SULU: I can't explain it. We were just closing in on the Klingon fleet when 
[Kor's office]
SULU [OC]: Every control on our ship became too hot to handle.
(Then it all goes dark, and he can touch the consoles again) 
SULU [OC]: Our power's gone. Our phaser banks are dead. 
KIRK: Stand by, Sulu. 
KOR: My fleet, it's helpless. 
KIRK: What have you done? 
AYELBORNE: As I stand here, I also stand upon the home planet of the Klingon Empire, and the home planet of your Federation, Captain. I'm putting a stop to this insane war. 
KOR: You're what? 
KIRK: You're talking nonsense. 
AYELBORNE: It is being done. 
KIRK: You can't just stop the fleet. What gives you the right? 
KOR: You can't interfere. What happens in space is not your business. 
AYELBORNE: Unless both sides agree to an immediate cessation of hostilities, all your armed forces, wherever they may be, will be immediately immobilised. 
KIRK: We have legitimate grievances against the Klingons. They've invaded our territory, killed our citizens. They're openly aggressive. They've boasted that they'll take over half the galaxy. 
KOR: Why not? We're the stronger! You've tried to hem us in, cut off vital supplies, strangle our trade! You've been asking for war! 
KIRK: You're the ones who issued the ultimatum to withdraw from the disputed areas! 
KOR: They are not disputed! They're clearly ours. And now you step in with some kind of trick. 
AYELBORNE: It is no trick, Commander. We have simply put an end to your war. All your military forces, wherever they are, are now completely paralysed. 
CLAYMARE: We find interference in other people's affairs most disgusting, but you gentlemen have given us no choice. 
KIRK: You should be the first to be on our side. Two hundred hostages killed. 
AYELBORNE: No one has been killed, Captain. 
CLAYMARE: No one has died here in uncounted thousands of years. 
KOR: You are liars. You are meddling in things that are none of your business. 
KIRK: Even if you have some power that we don't understand, you have no right to dictate to our Federation 
KOR: Or our Empire! 
KIRK: How to handle their interstellar relations! We have the right 
AYELBORNE: To wage war, Captain? To kill millions of innocent people? To destroy life on a planetary scale? Is that what you're defending? 
KIRK: Well, no one wants war. But there are proper channels. People have a right to handle their own affairs. Eventually, we would have;
AYELBORNE: Oh, eventually you will have peace, but only after millions of people have died. It is true that in the future, you and the Klingons will become fast friends. You will work together. 
KOR: Never! 
CLAYMARE: Your emotions are most discordant. We do not wish to seem inhospitable, but gentlemen, you must leave. 
AYELBORNE: Yes, please leave us. The mere presence of beings like yourselves is intensely painful to us. 
KIRK: What do you mean, beings like yourselves? 
AYELBORNE: Millions of years ago, Captain, we were humanoid like yourselves, but we have developed beyond the need of physical bodies. That of us which you see is mere appearance for your sake. 
KOR: Captain, it's a trick. We can handle them. I have an army. 
(Kirk holds him back as Ayelborne and Claymare transform into pulsating lights, too bright to look at. Then they disappear.) 
SPOCK: Fascinating. Pure energy. Pure thought. Totally incorporeal. Not life as we know it at all. 
KIRK: But what about this planet? The fields, the buildings, this citadel? 
SPOCK: Conventionalisations, I should say. Useless to the Organians. Created so that visitors such as ourselves, could have conventional points of reference. 
KOR: But is all of this possible? 
SPOCK: We have seen it with our own eyes. I should say the Organians are as far above us on the evolutionary scale as we are above the amoeba. 
KIRK: Well, Commander, I guess that takes care of the war. Obviously, the Organians aren't going to let us fight. 
KOR: A shame, Captain. It would have been glorious. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: You've been most restrained since we left Organia. 
KIRK: I'm embarrassed. I was furious with the Organians for stopping a war I didn't want. We think of ourselves as the most powerful beings in the universe. It's unsettling to discover that we're wrong. 
SPOCK: Captain, it took millions of years for the Organians to evolve into what they are. Even the gods did not spring into being overnight. You and I have no reason to be embarrassed. We did, after all, beat the odds. 
KIRK: Oh, no, no, no, Mister Spock, We didn't beat the odds. We didn't have a chance. The Organians raided the game. 

