Episode Number: 10
The Star Trek Transcripts - What Are Little Girls Made Of?
What Are Little Girls Made Of?
Stardate:
2712.4
Original Airdate: 20 Oct, 1966
[Bridge]
CREWMAN [OC]: All sections, security check in progress. Report. Forward phaser 
KIRK: We're entering standard orbit, Nurse. It won't be much longer. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Forward scanner to Bridge.
KIRK: I understand you gave up a career in bio-research to sign aboard a starship.
CHAPEL: I know he's alive down there, Captain. 
CREWMAN 2 [OC]: Aft scanner to Bridge, Status report, please. Engineering controls 
KIRK: It's been five years since his last message. 
CHAPEL: Roger's a very determined man. He'd find a way to live. 
UHURA: Beginning signals to surface, sir. 
KIRK: Put it on all frequencies, Lieutenant. 
SPOCK: Ship's record banks show little we don't already know about this planet, Captain. Gravity is one point one of Earth, atmosphere within safety limits.
KIRK: But the surface temperature of that planet is one hundred degrees below zero. 
SPOCK: It may have been inhabited once, but the sun in this system has been fading steadily for a half million years. Now, Doctor Korby, often called the Pasteur of archaeological medicine. His translation of medical records from the Orion ruins revolutionised our immunisation techniques. 
KIRK: Required reading at the academy, Mister Spock. I've always wanted to meet him. Do you think there's any chance of him still being alive? 
UHURA: I've tried all frequencies, sir. No return signal. 
KIRK: Keep trying. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Warp capacity point zero seven and building. 
CREWMAN 2 [OC]: Communicator, we need more lines to the impulse deck.
CHAPEL: His last signal told about finding underground caverns. 
KIRK: And since then two expeditions have failed to find him. 
UHURA: I've run all frequencies a second time. There's no 
KORBY [OC]: Enterprise, come in, Enterprise. This is Roger Korby. Repeating, this is Doctor Roger Korby. Do you read me, Enterprise? This is Doctor Roger Korby standing by. 
Captain's log, Stardate 2712.4. A signal from planet Exo 3. Doctor Roger Korby has been located, he and part of his expedition remaining alive due to the discovery of underground ruins Ieft by the former inhabitants of this world. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Enterprise to Korby. We have your co-ordinates pin-pointed. We're preparing to beam down a party. It may interest you that we have aboard this vessel 
KORBY [OC]: I've a rather unusual request, Captain Kirk. Beam down alone, just yourself. We've made discoveries of such a nature they may require an extraordinary decision from you. 
SPOCK: That's an unusual request. 
KIRK: The man making it is Doctor Roger Korby. 
SPOCK: You're certain you recognise his voice? 
CHAPEL: Have you ever been engaged, Mister Spock? Yes, it's Roger. 
KIRK: Agreed, Doctor. However, there will be two of us. 
CHAPEL: Hello, Roger.
KORBY [OC]: Christine! 
CHAPEL: Yes, Roger. 
KORBY [OC]: Darling, how, Where are you? Yes, yes, by all means, Captain. I, I had no idea, no hope. Darling, are you all right? 
CHAPEL: Yes, Roger. Everything's all right now.
KIRK: We're on our way, Doctor. We'll be with you in a moment. Enterprise out. 
[Transporter room]
KIRK: Energise. 
[Tunnel entrance]
CHAPEL: He said he'd be waiting. KIRK: Doctor Korby? Doctor Korby. It's possible we may have hit the wrong entry point. Kirk to Enterprise. 
SPOCK [OC]: Spock here, Captain.
KIRK: Beam down two security men. 
SPOCK [OC]: Any problems, Captain? 
KIRK: Some delay in meeting us. Probably nothing at all. Kirk out. Corridors could be quite deep. Getting here may have taken more time than he estimated. Don't worry. 
CHAPEL: Thank you. 
KIRK: Rayburn, maintain post here. 
RAYBURN: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Matthews, we'll look for Doctor Korby. Accompany us. 
MATTHEWS: Yes, sir. 
[Tunnels]
(the trio go deeper into the tunnel complex, until Chapel slips at the edge of a deep pit. Further on they come to a bright light. A figure steps in front of it) 
KIRK: Is that you, Doctor Korby? 
CHAPEL: Doctor Brown! It's Roger's assistant. Brownie, where's Roger? 
(a man screams, they dash back to the pit. A figure is creeping away, unseen) 
BROWN: Be careful. 
KIRK: Is there a path down there? 
BROWN: There's no hope, Captain. It's bottomless. He must have slipped. 
KIRK: Any chance of a projection or a ledge? 
BROWN: None, Captain. Unfortunate. Terribly unfortunate. Doctor Korby was detained. I came as soon as I could. 
KIRK: Not soon enough. 
CHAPEL: Brownie, what is it? 
BROWN: Explain. 
CHAPEL: Don't you recognise me? 
BROWN: Christine. You look well. My name is Brown, Doctor Korby's assistant. I presume you are Captain Kirk. He's dead, I assure you. Come, Doctor Korby will be waiting. 
KIRK: You do know him well? An old friend? 
CHAPEL: I suppose living here for five years. 
KIRK: Captain Kirk to Rayburn. Report. 
RAYBURN [OC]: All quiet here at the entry, Captain. 
[Tunnel entrance]
RAYBURN: Any problems there, sir? 
KIRK [OC]: We lost Matthews. Apparently an accident. Tell the Enterprise to have a full security party standing by. 
RAYBURN: Yes, sir. 
KIRK [OC]: And we'll both report in at hourly intervals. If you and I lose contact, or if he fails to hear from either of us, he's to beam the security party down immediately. Kirk out. 
(the figure creeps up on Rayburn and attacks him) 
[Tunnels]
BROWN: Doctor Korby has discovered that as their sun dimmed, the inhabitants of this planet moved underground from an open environment to this dark world. When you were a student of his, Christine, you must have often heard Doctor Korby remark how freedom of movement and choice produced the human spirit. The culture of Exo 3 proved his theory. When they moved from light to darkness, they replaced freedom with a mechanistic culture. Doctor Korby has been able to uncover elements of this culture which will revolutionise the universe when freed from this cavernous environment. 
[Korby's study]
ANDREA: I'm Andrea. You must be Christine. I've always thought how beautiful your name is. And you must be Captain Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. We appreciate you bringing Roger's fiancee to him. 
CHAPEL: I don't remember Doctor Korby mentioning an Andrea. 
ANDREA: But you are exactly as Roger described you. No wonder he missed you so. 
KIRK: Where is Doctor Korby? 
KORBY: Here, Captain. I, I've been looking forward to (sees Chapel, and they kiss) 
CHAPEL: Oh, I knew I'd find you. 
KORBY: Everything's all right now. Oh, forgive me, Captain. I'm, er, I'm Roger Korby. 
KIRK: There's no need to apologise, sir, and certainly no need to introduce yourself. 
BROWN: The captain lost a man in the caverns, Doctor. 
KORBY: What? How did it happen? 
BROWN: The pit near the outer junction. The edge must have given way. 
KORBY: I'm terribly sorry, Captain. Perhaps if I'd been there. I know the passages so well. 
KIRK: It wasn't your fault. Kirk to Rayburn, report. I'm required to make a security confirmation. When I call my ship, if you list your personnel, cargo requirements, any special needs 
KORBY: Captain, I'd much prefer 
KIRK: Rayburn, are you receiving? 
KORBY: I'd prefer you waited, Captain, please, till I've talked to you. 
KIRK: I've lost contact with my guard. I'm required to call my ship. 
BROWN: No communications, Captain. (holding weapon) 
CHAPEL: Roger. 
KORBY: I'm sorry. If they should send down more people, 
CHAPEL: Roger, that 
KORBY: He won't be harmed. I promise you. Isn't it possible there could be things here unknown to you, so terribly important 
KIRK: Sir, one man is dead. I've lost contact with the other. 
KORBY: Andrea. 
KIRK: What are you doing? 
KORBY: This is necessary, Captain. You will understand. Andrea. (she reaches for Kirk's phaser, but he grabs her to use as a shield and aims it at Brown instead, while moving towards a table to use as a barrier instead of the girl) 
KIRK: Drop it! (he fires, Brown falls straight backwards and the big figure bursts in and lifts Kirk off his feet. Chapel screams as she sees the hole in Brown reveals electronic parts) 
[Bridge]
KIRK [OC]: Enterprise from Captain Kirk. Come in. Do you read? 
UHURA: Frequency open, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Spock here, Captain. 
KIRK [OC]: Contact established with Doctor Korby. 
SPOCK: We were becoming concerned, Captain. Your check-in was overdue and since we'd not heard from your security team 
KIRK [OC]: No problem, Mister Spock. Bear with me. 
[Korby's study]
RUK [Kirk's voice]: We'll return to the ship within forty eight hours. Doctor Korby's records and specimens will require careful packing. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Captain, are you all right? You sound tired. 
[korby's study]
KORBY: If you move or cry out, Ruk may injure you. At least wait until we can talk. 
SPOCK [OC]: Acknowledge, Captain. Is everything all right? 
RUK [Kirk's voice]: Fine, Mister Spock. Doctor Korby has made some fascinating discoveries. All under control. Stand by for regular contact. Kirk out. 
KORBY: This is not a vain display, Captain. I'm a scientist. You obviously know my reputation. Trust me. 
KIRK: Yes, I know your reputation. The whole galaxy knows who you are and what you stand for. That's why all this makes no sense. 
KORBY: There's so much you must learn Before you make a final judgment. For example (to Ruk) Andrea. 
RUK [Andrea's Voice]: You must be Captain Kirk of the Starship Enterprise. [Korby's Voice] Christine, it's all right now. 
KORBY: You see, Captain? 
RUK [Christine's Voice]: Yes Roger, everything is all right now. 
KORBY: That's enough. You are not to mock Christine. You will never harm her. 
KIRK: Or disobey an order from her. 
KORBY: You will not disobey her orders. Satisfied, Captain Kirk? Both love and trust. Now, give me twenty four hours to convince you. 
KIRK: Doctor, do I need to be a prisoner to be convinced? 
KORBY: What would your first duty be upon return to your vessel? Report! Do you realise the number of discoveries lost because of superstition, of ignorance, of a layman's inability to comprehend? 
KIRK: A simple layman's question, Doctor. Where is my other crewman? Alive? Dead? 
KORBY: Ruk was programmed to protect my experiments. The logic of his machine mind saw danger to me. 
KIRK: Where is my other crewman? 
KORBY: Ruk destroyed them both, totally against my wishes I assure you. 
KIRK: He's an android like Brown? 
RUK: More complex than Brown. Much superior. I was left here by the old ones. 
KORBY: Ruk was still tending the machinery when we arrived here. How many centuries? Even Ruk doesn't know. With his help, ith the records I could find, we built Brown. 
KIRK: You've convinced me, Doctor. You've convinced me that you're dangerous. (makes a run for it but Ruk grabs him and throws him around) 
KORBY: Ruk, no! 
[Dining room]
ANDREA: I do not understand. Why are you unhappy? You are with Roger again. 
CHAPEL: Where is Captain Kirk? 
ANDREA: You are concerned about the captain?
CHAPEL: Yes, I am concerned.
ANDREA: How can you love Roger without trusting him? Why does it bother you when I use the name Roger?
KORBY: Andrea, it's sufficient that it does disturb her. You will call me Doctor Korby from now on, Andrea.
ANDREA: Yes, Doctor Korby. I didn't mean to eavesdrop, darling. As you can see, Captain Kirk is fine. He won't be harmed. The things at stake here simply make it necessary he doesn't send a report to his ship. I need time to explain and demonstrate to him and to you. Now shall we start with Andrea?
CHAPEL: Yes, let's start with Andrea.
ANDREA: I'm like Doctor Brown, an android. Didn't you know?
KORBY: Remarkable, isn't she? Notice the the lifelike pigmentation, the variation in skin tones. The flesh, the flesh has warmth. There's even a pulse, physical sensation.
CHAPEL: How convenient.
KORBY: Christine, you must realise an android's like a computer. It does only what I programme. As a trained scientist yourself, you must realise that 
CHAPEL: Given a mechanical Doctor Brown, a mechanical geisha would be no more difficult.
KORBY: You think I could love a machine?
CHAPEL: Did you?
KORBY: Andrea's incapable of that. She simply obeys orders. She has no meaning for me. There's no emotional bond. Andrea, kiss Captain Kirk. Now strike him. You see? There's no emotion in it, no emotional involvement. She simply responds to orders. She's a totally logical computer. A thing is not a woman. Now do you understand? 
KIRK: If these mechanical things have no feelings and perform only as you programme them, then why did Brown try to shoot me? Why did he kill two of my men? There are many things I don't understand, Doctor.
KORBY: I will answer all of your questions now. 
[Laboratory]
KORBY: This is how you make an android. (Kirk is naked on one side of circular table, a human-shaped blob on the other) Andrea. (the table starts turning) He's not being harmed, I promise. 
CHAPEL: Roger, what's happened to you? When I sat in your class, you wouldn't even dream of harming an insect or an animal. Their life was sacred to you then. 
KORBY: Christine, if I'd simply beamed up to their vessel with Brown and the others, I'd have given them objects of curiosity, beginnings of wild stories, foolish theories. Ruk! Watch carefully. (the blob turns into Kirk, and the table is stopped) Choose, Christine. Which is your captain? 
CHAPEL: I don't know. They're exact. I honestly don't know. 
KORBY: Synthetic organs are in place. We merely synchronise them with Kirk's autonomic nervous system, duplicating the rhythms of his body. At the same time, we duplicate the mental pattern. Now, physical pattern complete, we now make a mental pattern. Ready for final synaptic fusion. Andrea, stand by for cortex circuits. The android will be so perfect It could even replace the captain. The same memories, the same attitudes, the same abilities. Activate circuits. 
KIRK: Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed interference, do you hear? Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed (passes out, the other one wakes up) 
KORBY: Complete. 
CHAPEL: Are you all right? 
KIRK: As far as I know. 
KORBY: Now, meet an android. 
KIRK2: How do you do, Miss Chapel? 
[Dining room]
ANDREA: I am now programmed to please you also. Is the food appealing?
CHAPEL: Yes, thank you.
ANDREA: Please sit, Captain. 
KIRK2: Thank you. I'm more or less on parole, I understand.
ANDREA: Doctor Korby suggested that you have lunch. He thought you might have a few things to talk about.
CHAPEL: Captain. 
KIRK2: I know, I know. I'd hate to be torn between commander and fianc�e myself.
CHAPEL: No, I'm not torn. I'm puzzled. I'm worried. 
KIRK2: Has he confided in you? 
CHAPEL: Nothing he hasn't told you. I know it doesn't make sense. What he's done may seem wrong, but he is Roger Korby, whatever he seems to be doing. 
KIRK2: Unless something's gone wrong with his mind. 
CHAPEL: No. You're forgetting how well I know him. He's as sane as you or I. 
KIRK2: Nurse, if I gave you a direct order to betray him 
CHAPEL: Please, don't ask me to make that choice. I'd much rather you push me off the same precipice where Matthews died. Oh, I can't. (pushes plate away) Please, go ahead and eat. 
KIRK2: Androids don't eat, Miss Chapel. 
KORBY: He even has your sense of humour. 
KIRK: Well, there's one difference between us. I'm hungry. 
KIRK2: The difference is your weakness, Captain, not mine. 
KORBY: One at a time, gentlemen. Captain? 
KIRK: Eating is a pleasure, sir. Unfortunately, one you will never know. 
KIRK2: Perhaps, but I will never starve, sir. 
KIRK: He's an exact duplicate? 
KORBY: In every detail. 
KIRK: What about memory? Tell me about Sam. 
KIRK2: George Samuel Kirk, your brother. Only you call him Sam. 
KIRK: He saw me off on this mission. 
KIRK2: Yes, with his wife and three sons. 
KIRK: He said he was being transferred to Earth colony two research station. 
KIRK2: No, Captain. He said he was continuing his research and that he wanted to be transferred to Earth colony two. 
KORBY: You might as well try to outthink a calculating machine. 
KIRK: Obviously, I can't, but we do have some interesting differences. 
KORBY: Totally unimportant ones. You may leave now. (Kirk2 leaves) You haven't guessed the rest? Not even you, Christine? What you saw was only a machine, Only half of what I could've accomplished, Do you understand? By continuing the process I could've transferred you, your very consciousness into that android. Your soul, if you wish. All of you. In android form, a human being can have practical immortality. Can you understand what I'm offering mankind? 
KIRK: Programming. Different word, but the same old promises made by Genghis Khan, Julius Caesar, Hitler, Ferris, Maltuvis. 
KORBY: Can you understand that a human converted to an android can be programmed for the better? Can you imagine how life could be improved if we could do away with jealousy, greed, hate? 
KIRK: It can also be improved by eliminating love, tenderness, sentiment. The other side of the coin, Doctor. 
KORBY: No one need ever die again. No disease, no deformities. why even fear can be programmed away, replaced with joy. I'm offering you a pracical heaven, a new paradise, and all I need is your help. 
KIRK: All you wanted before was my understanding. 
KORBY: I need transportation to a planet colony with proper raw materials. I'm sure there are several good possibilities among your next stops. No diversion from your route. I want no suspicions aroused. I'll begin producing androids carefully, selectively. 
KIRK: Yes, yes. No one need know, only to frighten uninformed minds. 
KORBY: They must be strongly infiltrated into society before the android existence is revealed. I want no wave of hysteria to destroy what is good and right. You with me, Captain? 
KIRK: You've created your own Kirk. Why do you need me? 
KORBY: I created him to impress you, not to replace you. 
KIRK: I'm impressed, Doctor, but not the way you think! (leaps up with cord he's untied from the chair leg and loops it around Korby's throat) Stand back, Ruk! I'll kill him! Stay back. (goes through door, releasing Korby into Ruk's arms) 
KORBY: Ruk, protect! 
CHAPEL: Roger, I. Ruk, no! (runs after him) 
[Tunnels]
CHAPEL: Ruk, stop! Doctor Korby said you are to obey me! Ruk! Ruk! Ruk, I order you not to harm him! 
(Kirk breaks off a stalactite to use as a club. RUk hears the sound) 
RUK [Chapel's Voice]: Captain Kirk, where are you? Captain Kirk! I can help you! 
KIRK: Christine, is that you? 
(Ruk sneaks up and they struggle, ending up with Kirk dangling from the edge of the pit. After thinking about it, Ruk pulls him up to safety) 
[Corridor]
SPOCK: Captain! 
[Bedroom]
SPOCK: Captain, We finished ahead of schedule. 
KIRK2: Doctor Korby has considerable cargo to beam aboard. I'll have to go over our destination schedule with him. 
SPOCK: You're going back down with the command pack? 
KIRK2: Mind your own business, Mister Spock. I'm sick of your half-breed interference, do you hear? 
SPOCK: Yes. very well, Captain. 
KIRK2: You look upset, Mister Spock. Is everything all right up here? 
SPOCK: No problems here, sir. 
KIRK2: Good. I'll beam up shortly with Doctor Korby and party. (leaves);
SPOCK: Security, Spock here. Status of your landing party? 
SECURITY [OC]: Ready and standing by, sir, 
SPOCK: Have them meet me in the transporter room after the Captain has beamed down. 
[Korby's study]
KIRK2: I looked it over. I think you'll find planet Midas Five an excellent choice. 
KORBY: A small colony. Abundant raw materials. You made a good beginning, Captain. 
KIRK2: Thank you. I felt quite at home on the Enterprise. 
[Bedroom]
KIRK: Andrea, kiss me. (she does, then raises her arm to slap him. He stops her and pulls her in for a passionate embrace)
ANDREA: No. Not programmed for you.
KIRK: What's the matter, Andrea? Confused? 
ANDREA: No. (leaves. Ruk blocks Kirk's attempt to leave) 
KIRK: Emotion, Ruk? You disapprove of Miss Chapel's orders to save my life? 
RUK: To maintain your existence would be illogical.
KIRK: Why? Can't your memory banks solve a simple equation like that? What happened to the old ones, Ruk? 
RUK: So long ago. 
KIRK: Is it possible they built their machines too well, gave them pride and a desire to survive? Machines that wanted logic and order and found that frustrated by the illogical emotional creatures that built them? 
RUK: Yes, the old ones. The ones who made us. They grew fearful of us. They began to turn us off. 
KIRK: And isn't it Korby who's creating the same danger to you all over again? Unlike you, we humans are full of unpredictable emotions that logic cannot solve. 
RUK: Yes. Yes, it had been so long ago, I had forgotten. The old ones here. The ones who made us, yes. Yes, it is still in my memory banks. It became necessary to destroy them. You are inconsistent. You cannot be programmed. You are inferior. 
KIRK: And Korby?
RUK: You came from the outside. You bring disorder here. 
KIRK: The danger to you is Korby. 
RUK: I was programmed by Korby. I cannot harm him. 
KIRK: The old ones programmed you, too, but it became possible to destroy them.
RUK: That was the equation! (seizes Kirk) Existence! Survival must cancel out programming.
KIRK: That's it, Ruk! Logic! You can't protect someone who's trying to destroy you! 
KORBY: Ruk, I would like 
RUK: You brought him among us. You brought the inferior ones. We had cleansed ourselves of them. Now you bring the evil back!
KORBY: Ruk, stop! Your programming. (fires phaser, Ruk vanishes) I had no choice. 
[Corridor]
KIRK: You were a man with respect for all things alive. How can I explain the change in you? If I was to tell Earth I was in your hands, to tell them what has become (jumps Korby and traps his arm in a door. The skin tears to reveal electronics) 
[Korby's study]
KORBY: It's still me, Christine. Roger. I'm in here. You can't imagine how it was. I was frozen, dying. My legs were gone. I was, I had only my brain between life and death. This can be repaired easier than another man can set a broken finger. I'm still the same as I was before, Christine, perhaps even better.
CHAPEL: Are you, Roger? 
KORBY: (into comm. unit) Andrea.
ANDREA [OC]: Yes, Doctor. 
KORBY: There's someone in the outer junction. 
KIRK: Spock. He must've got my message. 
ANDREA [OC]: I will find Ruk. 
CHAPEL: But he'll never find us in this maze. 
KORBY: Ruk has been shut off. 
[Laboratory]
KORBY [OC]: Get a weapon. Deal with it. Protect. 
[Corridor outside laboratory]
ANDREA: I will kiss you.
KIRK2: No. 
ANDREA: You, you will not?
KIRK2: It is illogical. (she disintegrates him) 
[Korby's study]
KORBY: I'm the same! A direct transfer. All of me, human, rational, and without a flaw. 
ANDREA: He freed himself, and I destroyed, (sees Kirk there) destroyed him. I am not programmed for alarms. I listened to your instructions. They were mis-stated. 
KIRK: She killed the android, Korby, the same way you killed Ruk. Is this your perfect world, your flawless beings killing off one another? Aren't you doing exactly what you hate most in humans, killing with no more concern than when you turn off a light? 
KORBY: I'm not a computer. Test me. Ask me to solve any, equate, transmit. Christine, Christine, let me prove myself. Does this make such a difference?
CHAPEL: Don't you see, Roger? Everything you've done has proved it isn't you.
KORBY: I am Roger Korby!
KIRK: Then prove it. Give me that phaser gun. If there's any human left in you, give it to me.
KORBY: No. You will never understand. I constructed a perfect being, tested it, proved it. Proved it. Proved it? (hands phaser to Kirk) 
KIRK: Andrea, give me the weapon.
ANDREA: No. Protect. Protect. (to Korby) To love you. To, to kiss you. 
KORBY: No. You cannot love. You're not human.
ANDREA: Love you. Kiss. (Korby reaches for trigger and disintegrates them both)
SPOCK [OC}: Captain Kirk! 
KIRK: In here, Spock.
SPOCK: Captain, are you all right? Nurse? Where's Doctor Korby?
KIRK: Doctor Korby was never here. 
[Bridge]
CHAPEL: Thank you for letting me make the decision, Captain. I'm quite certain I'm doing the right thing. (leaves) 
KIRK: She's staying with the ship. Something bothering you, Mister Spock?
SPOCK: Frankly, I was rather dismayed by your use of the term half-breed, Captain. You must admit it is an unsophisticated expression. 
KIRK: I'll remember that Mister Spock, the next time I find myself in a similar situation. Steady as we go, helm. 

