Episode Number: 68
The Star Trek Transcripts - Wink Of An Eye
Wink Of An Eye
Stardate: 5710.5
Original Airdate: 29 Nov, 1968
Ship's log, stardate 5710.5. Lieutenant Commander Scott reporting. While exploring an outer quadrant of the galaxy, the Enterprise received distress calls from an apparently uninhabited, incredibly beautiful city on the planet of Scalos. Captain Kirk and a landing party have beamed down to investigate. 
[Bridge]
KIRK [OC]: Kirk to Enterprise. 
[Scalos]
(A blue background of extraordinary architecture, and a humanoid statue.) 
KIRK: What do your sensors read? 
SCOTT [OC]: They register something, sir, but I'm blessed if I can figure out what it is. 
KIRK: Specify. 
SCOTT [OC]: I can't get a fix on it. Sensors don't pinpoint a location. We may have a malfunction. I'm about to check circuits, sir. 
KIRK: You do that. Lieutenant Uhura, does the location of the distress call correspond with this area 
[Bridge]
KIRK [OC]: Exactly? 
UHURA: Yes, sir. I am still receiving visual contact. I can see them, but I can't see you. 
(The viewscreen has five people standing in an area with the same architecture behind them.) 
KIRK [OC]: Check co-ordinates. Is it the same area? 
UHURA: Co-ordinates correspond, Captain. 
[Scalos]
KIRK: Well, apart from the landing party, there's no one here. There are no Scalosians. 
UHURA [OC]: The distress call is very strong, Captain. They are pleading for immediate assistance. 
KIRK: Check circuits for malfunctions. Kirk out. 
MCCOY: It must be a malfunction. This is a barren world. There's hardly any vegetation, no apparent animal life. 
KIRK: When we've run analysis, we should have some explanation. (waves away a buzz) But there is an insect life. 
MCCOY: My tricorder doesn't register it. 
KIRK: It registers in my ears. Nothing, Mister Spock? 
SPOCK: Evidently a civilisation of high order, rating number seven on the industrial scale. Humanoid in appearance, according to the paintings. An abundance of literature, which I shall have translated and processed. Certain structures hold evidence of recent occupancy while others are apparently long abandoned. 
KIRK: No sign of present life? 
SPOCK: Instrument readings indicate life-form, but of a highly unusual and intermittent nature. They have no discernible form or location. A most puzzling phenomenon, Captain. I shall have to study it further. 
KIRK: Something was here. We saw them on the screen. Lieutenant Uhura is still getting a distress call. What happened? 
SPOCK: Unknown at present, Captain. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, I want you to run a survey, a complete survey of the planet using all ship's available instruments. 
(McCoy turns to hear a buzz then his assistant disappears.) 
MCCOY: Compton! 
KIRK: What happened? 
MCCOY; I was looking at him. I was looking right at him, and he. And he just wasn't there! 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Lieutenant Uhura, start a replay of the distress call. Scotty, are the transporter controls functioning now? 
SCOTT: Aye, sir. Is Mister Spock still down there? 
KIRK: No, he's in Sickbay. Doctor McCoy is running a check on the landing party. What is it, Lieutenant? 
UHURA: Malfunction, sir. 
KIRK: Mister Sulu, I would like 
UHURA: Captain. It corrected itself. 
SULU: Captain, there's some trouble on the hangar deck. The controls are frozen. 
KIRK: Have repair crews been assigned? 
SULU: Yes, sir. 
UHURA: The tape is ready, sir. 
KIRK: Play it. 
(Spock enters as the viewscreen displays Scalos and that statue.) 
RAEL [on viewscreen]: To any and all space travellers passing within range of the planet Scalos, I send you an urgent appeal for help. My comrades and I are the last surviving members of what was once a thriving civilisation. Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what has been happening to us. Our number is now five. We were once a nation of nine hundred thousand. 
KIRK: Freeze it. 
SPOCK: It is logical to assume that this distress call was pre-recorded. What we received was evidently a delayed taped message. 
UHURA: That would explain our continuing to receive it while our sensors only picked up the landing party, sir. 
KIRK: The fact remains, when we beamed down there we couldn't find these people. They were there, now they're not. Nor is Crewman Compton. 
SPOCK: It would seem that some force or agent only partially discernible to our instruments may have been responsible. 
KIRK: Mister Sulu, I want the ship on standby alert while we continue the investigation. 
SULU: Sir, now I have readings that deflectors are inoperative. The controls are frozen. 
KIRK: Scotty, assist. 
KIRK: Mister Spock, ever since we beamed up from Scalos, we've had a series of malfunctions. I want an investigation and an explanation. 
MCCOY [OC]: McCoy to Captain Kirk. Captain's presence for examination is requested. 
KIRK: Can't it wait, Bones? 
MCCOY [OC]: Your orders, Jim. You're the last one. 
KIRK: What do you read so far? 
MCCOY [OC]: Can we discuss it here? 
KIRK: On my way. Mister Spock, you have the conn. 
[Sickbay]
KIRK: What is it? 
MCCOY: Tell the captain what you told me. 
CHAPEL: Something's going on, Captain. Somebody's opened all the medical supply cabinets. 
KIRK: Anything missing? 
CHAPEL: Just disordered, as though someone had picked up everything and examined it. 
KIRK: Thank you. 
MCCOY: Lie down, Jim. 
KIRK: That fits in with other disturbances. Bones, what did your readings show up on the other men? 
MCCOY: All perfectly normal. Whatever happened to Compton down there apparently had no effect on anyone else. 
KIRK: Any of them report any unusual experience since beaming? 
MCCOY: No. There's no mention of it. 
(The buzzing sound. Kirk starts to sit up.) 
MCCOY: I'm not finished yet. 
KIRK: Hold on. Bones, could something be making me hallucinate? 
MCCOY: What do you mean? 
KIRK: I mean that twice before something touched me, and there was nothing there. And it's just happened again. Could I be imagining it? 
MCCOY: Physically, there's nothing wrong with you. 
KIRK: But am I hallucinating? 
MCCOY: I'd say no. 
KIRK: Then we did beam something aboard. Something has invaded the ship. Kirk to Spock. Come in. Spock, come in. 
SPOCK [OC]: (bad static) Captain, I have a reading from Life Support centre 
KIRK: Spock, I can't hear you. Check your circuits. Is there a malfunction? 
UHURA [OC]: Captain, intercom system is breaking down rapidly. 
KIRK: Lieutenant, ship wide order. Use communicators instead of intercom. Issue phasers to all crew members. Spock, repeat. 
SPOCK: I have a reading from Life Support centre. Alien substances being introduced. 
KIRK: Meet me there on the double. 
[Corridor]
(Spock hands Kirk a phaser. The two security men running ahead hit a forcefield and fall down.) 
KIRK: Spock? 
SPOCK: It is a force field, Captain, the nature of which I'm not familiar with. I'm getting readings of an alien presence similar to those obtained on the planet's surface, but they seem to have no exact location. 
KIRK: Phasers on stun. Sweep the area. 
(The corridor goes green as they fire. Then they all walk forward, but the two security men are stopped again by the force field.) 
SPOCK: It would seem, Captain, that they intend to allow only the two of us to enter. I should advise caution. 
[Environmental Engineering]
(There is a contraption hooked up to Life Support.) 
KIRK: What is it? 
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. But it is evidently a device of alien origin. 
KIRK: Hooked into the life support. Designed to affect it. 
SPOCK: Life support is still operating. I would say that the installation is incomplete. 
KIRK: Disconnect it. (Spock gets a shock from it) Destroy it. 
(Their phasers disappear from their hands, then they are pushed backwards.) 
KIRK: That was no force field. Something shoved me back. They're in here. You! What are you doing on my ship? Show yourselves! 
SPOCK: It seems that we may look at it, Captain, but that is all. 
KIRK: A show of strength. 
SPOCK: Yes. Evidently they are convinced that we can do nothing to stop them, and they wish to impress upon us what they can do to us. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Have your readings been fed into the computer? 
SPOCK: Affirmative. 
KIRK: Read out. 
SPOCK: Computer, analyse and reply. Have we been invaded? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
SPOCK: Nature and description of enemy forces. 
COMPUTER: Data insufficient. 
SPOCK: Number of enemy forces. 
COMPUTER: Data insufficient. 
SPOCK: Purpose of the invasion? 
COMPUTER: Immediate purpose, seizure and control of Federation Star ship Enterprise and crew. Data insufficient for determination of end purpose. 
SPOCK: Is there a connection between this and Compton's disappearance? 
COMPUTER: Data insufficient. 
SPOCK: Are we at present capable of resisting? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
SPOCK: Your recommendation? 
COMPUTER: If incapable of resistance, negotiate for terms. 
KIRK: We will not negotiate. Do you concur? 
SCOTT: Aye. 
KIRK: Mister Spock? 
SPOCK: Your recommendations, Captain? 
KIRK: Yeoman, is that coffee available, or have those circuits been damaged as well? (takes a cup from her tray) My recommendation? Make them take the next step. 
(Kirk hears that buzzing again. We see his coffee bubble briefly. He takes a drink, grimaces (it is black coffee) then everything around him slows down and finally stops.) 
KIRK: Spock? 
DEELA: (the woman from the distress call) Captain. 
KIRK: Would you mind explaining (she kisses him) Who are you? 
DEELA: Deela. The enemy. 
KIRK: You're the enemy? 
DEELA: Yes. You beamed me aboard yourself when you came up. A ridiculously long process, but I've taken care of it. 
KIRK: What have you done with my men? 
DEELA: Nothing. 
KIRK: Nothing? Mister Spock? Scotty. This is nothing? 
DEELA: There's really nothing wrong with them. They are just as they have always been. It's you who are different. 
KIRK: Lieutenant. Sulu. This is nothing? 
DEELA: They cannot hear you, Captain. To their ears, you sound like an insect. That's your description, Captain. Accurate, if unflattering. Really, there is nothing wrong with them. 
KIRK: What have you done? 
DEELA: Changed you. So you are like me now. Your crew cannot see you or any of us because of the acceleration. We move in the wink of an eye. Oh, there is a scientific explanation for it, but all that really matters is that you can see me and talk to me, and we can go on from there. 
KIRK: Why? 
DEELA: Because I like you. Didn't you guess? Or are you so accustomed to being kissed by invisible women? 
(She kisses him again, but he doesn't respond.) 
KIRK: Deela. Is this why you sabotaged my ship? 
DEELA: Oh, but it has not been sabotaged. We we had to make some changes in it to adjust it to us. 
KIRK: You said we? 
DEELA: Yes. Of course. My chief scientist and his crew. I am their queen. You are going to be their king. You'll enjoy living on Scalos. 
KIRK: What about my ship? My crew? 
DEELA: Oh, in a few of their moments, they will realise that you've vanished. They will look for you, but they will not find you. You're accelerated far beyond their power to see. So they'll go on without you. Don't be so stubborn. You cannot go back to them, ever. Is it so dreadful a prospect? 
KIRK: (draws his phaser) This won't kill you, but the stun effect is not very pleasant. 
DEELA: But that won't work. You go ahead and try. Point it right at me. 
(She sidesteps the slow phaser beam easily.) 
DEELA: My reactions are much too fast for such a crude weapon. And I am quite good at self-defense, too. This can be set for stun and destroy, too, like yours. (his phaser goes flying) Please, accept what has happened. There is nothing you can do to change it. 
KIRK: If I agree to go with you, will you set this ship to rights? Take out that device in the life-support system? 
DEELA: Don't be so silly. You'll feel better about it all in a little while. It always happens this way. They are very upset at first, then it wears off and they, they learn to like it. You will, too. 
(Kirk leaves} 
DEELA: He's on his way to you. Be gentle with him. 
(Meanwhile, in our normal time-frame) 
UHURA: Captain. Captain Kirk! He's gone! 
SPOCK: Lieutenant, did you see what happened? 
UHURA: Well, he was sitting there. He'd just drunk his coffee and set his cup down. You see it's still there. And then he vanished. 
SPOCK: Mister Sulu, do you verify? 
SULU: That's just what happened. He was there, then all of a sudden he wasn't there. 
[Corridor]
COMPTON: Captain Kirk, you've made it. 
KIRK: Compton, did they accelerate you? 
COMPTON: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: They hooked something into the life support system. They're in there. We've got to get rid of it. 
COMPTON: I'm sorry, sir. Entry is forbidden. 
KIRK: By whose order? 
COMPTON: The commander, sir. You'll have to step back, please. 
KIRK: I'm your commander, Compton. I order you to let me in. 
COMPTON: I'm sorry, sir. You are no longer. 
KIRK: Who is? Deela? Is that who you're working for? 
COMPTON: At first I refused, but then after a while I found I couldn't help myself. I met this girl. She's one of them. I've never known anyone like her. She brought me aboard to show them operation of the ship. Bridge controls, life support. She explained that they wanted to know. I didn't understand at first, but I do now. So will you, sir. 
KIRK: All right, Compton. 
(Kirk turns away, then quickly disarms Compton and enters) 
[Environmental Engineering]
(Two Scalosian males are there.) 
RAEL: Stun. 
(Kirk falls gently to the floor. Compton enters and attacks the man with the weapon. He is knocked down for his loyalty.) 
RAEL: You were ordered to stop him. Why did you disobey? 
COMPTON: I tried to stop him. You hurt him. 
RAEL: He was violent. He had to be subdued. 
COMPTON: He was my captain. 
EKOR: Cell damage.;
RAEL: (to a young woman) Another will be secured for you. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: I'm getting a trace reading similar to that on the planet. Mister Sulu, did you drink your coffee? 
SULU: Yes. 
SPOCK: Did anyone else? 
SCOTT: I had some. 
SPOCK: May I? 
SCOTT: Was it the coffee? Are we going to go too, just like the captain? 
SPOCK: I cannot give you that answer until these have been analysed. 
SCOTT: By that time it'll be too late. 
SPOCK: I suggest that we recall the captain's words, Make them take the next step. It would seem they have taken it. And we must determine effective countermeasures. Mister Scott, you have the conn. I shall be in the medical lab. 
[Environmental Engineering]
(Deela is kneeling next to the still-unconscious Kirk.) 
DEELA: I hate what happens to them when they're damaged. You're going to have to learn to control your temper, Rael. I do not want that to happen to this one. If they are so stubborn a species, perhaps they will last longer. 
RAEL: It may be. 
DEELA: I hope so. They all go so soon. I want to keep this one a long time. He's pretty. 
RAEL: He is inferior, Deela. 
DEELA: Oh? I don't think so. 
RAEL: You cannot allow yourself to feel an attachment to such. 
DEELA: I can allow myself anything I want. Oh, Rael, don't be like that. Am I jealous of what you do? 
RAEL: I do my duty. 
DEELA: So do I. And sometimes I allow myself to enjoy it. 
(Kirk wakes up.) 
DEELA: Hello. 
KIRK: What is that device doing on my ship? 
RAEL: Deela will explain it. 
DEELA: I will tell you anything you want to know, and you'll approve of it. 
KIRK: Approve of it? We're your prisoners. 
DEELA: Hardly. You're free to go anywhere you want to. 
RAEL: Go ahead, Captain. It is not yet completely linked to your support system, but it is in operating order. Study it if you wish. I suggest that you do not touch it. 
(Kirk touches the device briefly, then clamps both hands firmly onto it in an act of defiance. Deela pulls them off.) 
DEELA: He told you not to touch it. Look at your hands. They're almost frozen, aren't they? It will pass. 
RAEL: The unit has its own self-defence mechanism, as you see. You should've heeded me. 
(Kirk sees Compton on the floor. The young man now looks very old.) 
RAEL: In your struggle with Compton, some of his cells were damaged. Those newly accelerated to our level are sensitive to cell damage. They age rapidly and die. 
KIRK: He was so young. 
RAEL: Was. 
KIRK: This is what you have planned for us? 
DEELA: We all die, even on Scalos. 
(Kirk leaves.) 
DEELA: Why did you lie to him? He did not damage that one, you did. 
RAEL: Perhaps he will be less violent now. 
DEELA: I see no reason to make him feel any worse than he has to. 
RAEL: Why do you care what he feels? 
DEELA: Rael, he's not one of us. He's temporary. (getting a message via her collar device) He's gone to the medical laboratory. He's trying to communicate with the Vulcan. His species is capable of much affection. 
RAEL: I have noted that. 
DEELA: I wonder if they will demonstrate it to us. Oh, Rael, stop sulking. Accept it. We've had to accept it all our lives. Don't make it worse. 
(Rael kisses Deela) 
DEELA: Go back to work. 
[Medical Lab]
(In fast time. Kirk is using a computer console whilst McCoy, Chapel and Spock are motionless at another bench, examining test results.) 
KIRK: Kirk to Spock, I have fed all the ascertainable facts into the computer banks. 
(Deela enters.) 
DEELA: Go ahead. You won't accomplish anything, but it may be historically valuable. 
KIRK: Hyperacceleration is the key. I have counted only five of them aboard, but they have taken over the ship, and we are under their control due to this acceleration. They are able to speed others up to their level, as they did Compton and me. Presumably, this is enslavement? Those so treated exist at this accelerated level, becoming docile eventually. But when 
DEELA: Damaged. 
KIRK: Damaged, they age incredibly fast, as though accelerated living 
DEELA: Burns them out. 
KIRK: Burns them out. Compton was burned out. The device attached to the life-support system produces an extreme, numbing cold. It is my belief that they are turning the Enterprise into a gigantic deep-freeze for purposes only the Scalosians know. 
DEELA: Quite correct. 
KIRK: The unit has a protective shield which does not allow any physical contact. I don't know how to destroy it, but its destruction is imperative. 
DEELA: The unit will be activated. By the time they hear this, it will be too late. You have remarkable reasoning powers, Captain. You were quite right in almost every assumption. 
KIRK: Why are you doing this? 
DEELA: Do you really want to know? In a little while it won't matter to you at all. You'll be quite happy about it, Just as Compton was. 
KIRK: I really want to know. 
DEELA: Oh, dear. You are so stubborn. It should be obvious to you that we're doing it because we have to. A long time ago, it is in our history, we used to be like you. Then our country was almost destroyed by volcanic eruptions. The water was polluted. Radiation was released. That changed us. It accelerated us. The children died. Most of the women found they could not have more. All of our men had become sterile. So we had to mate outside our own people. Whenever a spaceship came by, we'd send our calls for help. But accelerating them to our level burned them out. Don't you see, Captain? Do I have to go into every detail? We are going to take you down with us. Perhaps one or two others of your crew. We have to. We'll be kind to you. I wouldn't hurt you, certainly. I do like you. 
KIRK: What about the rest of my crew? 
DEELA: They'll remain here in suspended animation. It will do them no harm. We are saving them for when we need them in the future. You will not last forever. You know that, Captain. Captain, we have the right to survive. 
KIRK: Not by killing others. 
DEELA: You were doing exactly the same thing. You came charging into that life-support room the minute you knew there was trouble. You would have killed every one my people if you could have. 
KIRK: You invaded my ship. You threaten my crew. 
DEELA: There is no difference. 
KIRK: There is a difference! Your trouble is in you. 
DEELA: We did not ask for it. We are not to blame. We are handling it the only way we know how. The way our parents and their parents before them. 
KIRK: Did they solve anything? Have you tried any other way? Deela, have your scientists disconnect, destroy that unit. I promise you, we'll use every skill we have to help you. We'll move you to another planet. We'll call on the most brilliant minds in our Federation to help. We'll do it
DEELA: We have tried other ways. We've tried to make the transition to your level. Some of us, that is. Those who made the attempt died. We are trapped, Captain, Just as you are trapped now. I'm sorry for what's going to happen to you, but I cannot change it. You cannot change me. 
RAEL [OC]: Go to the transporter room, Deela. Signal me when you're there and beam down. 
DEELA: With the captain? 
RAEL [OC]: Yes. I'll activate our unit and follow you. I'm setting it to allow all of us time to get off the ship. Please don't delay. 
(Meanwhile, Kirk slips his computer tape into the machine Spock is working at. Then he slips out.) 
DEELA: Just what makes you think I would do that? The captain's gone. 
[Environmental Engineering]
RAEL: Go after him, Deela. 
[Medical Lab]
(in real time) 
MCCOY: There's no question about it, Spock. I want you to take a look at this. The same substance is in the captain's coffee as in the Scalosian water, and there's no trace of it in any other cups. 
[Transporter room]
(Kirk removed a vital component from the control console before Deela enters. She draws her weapon.) 
DEELA: Why did you run? 
KIRK: I panicked. 
DEELA: I don't believe that. 
KIRK: I'd like to leave before he activates the suspended animation device. 
DEELA: (into her comm. unit) We're in the transporter room. You can activate. 
RAEL [OC]: Beam him down at once. 
DEELA: Captain. 
(Kirk stands on the transporter pad. Deela activates the controls but nothing happens.) 
DEELA: What have you done to the transporter, Captain? 
KIRK: It was working before. Try it again. 
DEELA: (into her comm. unit) The transporter isn't working. 
[Environmental Engineering]
RAEL: What'd he do to it? 
DEELA [OC]: Nothing. He didn't have time. 
[Transporter room]
DEELA: It must be a, what do you call it? A malfunction. You'd better not activate the unit yet. What would you say it is, Captain? 
KIRK: The technicians reported a loss of power. That must be it. 
DEELA: The captain says his technicians 
RAEL [OC]: I heard him. You expect me to believe him? 
DEELA: I expect you to check into all possible causes. If I had a suspicious nature, Captain, I would say that you sabotaged the transporter to buy time. 
KIRK: Yes, of course. 
DEELA: I'm glad we're both innocents. I despise devious people, don't you? 
KIRK: I believe in honest relationships myself. 
[Medical lab]
SPOCK: Nurse, programme the information and determine whether we can find counteragents. (there's a buzz) Doctor, did you just 
MCCOY: I've been hearing that whine ever since we beamed down to Scalos. 
SPOCK: I know what it is. We brought it with us from Scalos. If you'll excuse me, I shall be on the bridge. 
[Kirk's quarters]
DEELA: Your quarters are quite like you, Captain. Austere and efficient, and in their own way, handsome. 
KIRK: A room should reflect its occupant. 
DEELA: Absolutely. May I freshen up? All this rushing about has left me windblown. I'm glad to see you allow yourself some comforts. Are you married, Captain? No family? No attachments? I know. You're married to your career, and you never look at another woman. 
KIRK: Well, if she's pretty enough, I'll look. 
DEELA: I wondered when you'd say something nice to me. Am I more presentable now? 
KIRK: A bit. 
DEELA: It was quite delightful kissing you when you couldn't see me. But now 
KIRK: But now. 
(He kisses her, then takes her hands but she dodges away. He was trying to get the weapon from her sleeve.) 
DEELA: No. I wouldn't allow you to take that no matter how much we trust each other. But I would've been disappointed if you hadn't tried. 
KIRK: Was I too crude? 
DEELA: Just don't try it again. You're far too vulnerable to skin damage. All I have to do is scratch you. 
KIRK: Yes. I know. 
DEELA: The difference between us is that you will come around to our way of thinking sooner or later. But it's better sooner than later. 
(Another kiss.) 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lieutenant, will you replay the Scalosian distress call on my viewer? 
UHURA: Aye, sir. 
RAEL [on viewer]: To any and all space travellers passing within range of the planet Scalos, I send you an urgent appeal for help. My comrades and I are the last surviving members of what was once a thriving civilisation. 
MCCOY [on viewer]: Compton! 
KIRK [on viewer]: What happened? 
MCCOY [on viewer]: I was looking at him. I was looking right at him, and then he just wasn't there 
RAEL [on viewer]: Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what's happening to us. (Spock slows down the playback, then speeds it up) Those of us who are left have taken shelter in this area. We have no explanation for what's happening to us. Nation of nine hundred thousand. City alone holding one hundred thirteen thousand. On which existed several culturally enlightened Indigenous population 
(Finally it is speeded up to the familiar buzz or whine the crew have been hearing.) 
KIRK [on viewer]: There is an insect life. 
MCCOY [on viewer]: My tricorder doesn't register it. 
KIRK [on viewer]: My ears register it. 
MCCOY [on viewer]: This is a barren world. Limited vegetation, no apparent animal life. 
[Medical lab]
(McCoy discovers there is already a computer tape in the machine slot. He plays it and just hears that whine.) 
MCCOY: McCoy to Spock. 
SPOCK [OC]: Spock here. 
MCCOY: I've found a tape in the computer down here, and when I try to read it, all I get is a whine. 
SPOCK [OC]: Bring it to the bridge at once, Doctor. 
[Bridge]
KIRK [on viewer]: This device attached to the life-support system produces an extreme, numbing cold. It is my belief that they are turning the Enterprise into a gigantic deep-freeze. The unit has protective shield which does not allow any physical contact. I don't know how to destroy it, but its destruction is imperative. 
DEELA [OC]: The unit will be activated. By the time they hear this, it will be too late. 
SPOCK: Lieutenant Uhura, notify the rest of the crew. 
UHURA: Aye, sir. 
SCOTT: Can we use phasers to cut through that wall, bypass the force field and get at that unit? 
SPOCK: Mister Scott, we cannot cope with them on our level. 
SCOTT: Can we find some way of coping with them on theirs? 
SPOCK: That is a very logical suggestion. Stand by in the transporter room. 
[Transporter room]
(Scott is in the doorway of the room, as the Scalosians try to fix the transporter.) 
EKOR: There's nothing wrong elsewhere, sir. Sufficient energy for beaming down. 
RAEL: This is the only damage? Go get the others and bring them up here. (into comm.) Deela. Deela? Deela! 
[Kirk's quarters]
(Kirk is putting on his boots as Deela combs her hair. Draw your own conclusions. Rael runs in as the couple indulge in another kiss.) 
DEELA: Rael! 
(Rael takes a swing at Kirk.) 
DEELA: Rael, stop. 
(Kirk uses a chair as a shield, then Deela shoots Rael, stun level, twice.) 
KIRK: No. 
DEELA: Now, stop it. Did he damage you, Captain? 
KIRK: No. 
DEELA: How very fortunate for you, Rael. Don't you dare do anything like that again. It's contemptible. 
RAEL: Then don't torment me. You know how I feel. 
DEELA: I don't care what your feelings are. I don't want to know that aspect of it. What I do is necessary, and you have no right to question it. Allow me the dignity of liking the man I select. Is the transporter repaired? 
RAEL: No. I have more work to do. 
DEELA: Don't you think you'd better do it? 
(Rael leaves.) 
DEELA: He loves me. I adored him when I was a child. I suppose I still do. I must say, you behaved better than he did. 
KIRK: Yes, I hope so. 
DEELA: What did you say? 
KIRK: I said I hoped I behaved correctly. 
DEELA: And nothing bothers you now? 
KIRK: Why are we here? 
DEELA: Our leaving was delayed. Don't you remember? You damaged the transporter. 
KIRK: Oh, yes. That was wrong of me. 
DEELA: Yes, it certainly was. 
KIRK: But we are going to Scalos? 
DEELA: Do you want to? 
KIRK: Oh, yes. 
DEELA: What about your crew? Aren't you worried about them? 
KIRK: They'll be all right. 
DEELA: Oh. 
KIRK: What's the matter? 
DEELA: Nothing. You've completely accepted the situation, haven't you? You even like it. 
KIRK: Am I behaving incorrectly? 
DEELA: No! I liked you better before. Stubborn and irritating and independent, like Rael. 
KIRK: Those are undesirable qualities. 
DEELA: Maybe that's why I liked you so much. Because you were like him. (into comm.) Rael? You don't have to worry about the captain. He's made the adjustment. 
[Medical lab]
MCCOY: Finished. 
SPOCK: Yes, it counteracts the substance most effectively. 
MCCOY: Most effectively under laboratory conditions, but the question is will it work in the human body? And the second question is, how do we get it to the captain? 
SPOCK: By drinking the Scalosian water. (and does so) 
MCCOY: Spock, you don't know what that'll do to you. 
SPOCK: It is somewhat stimulating. You seem to be moving very slowly, Doctor. Fascinating. 
(Spock leaves, and we jump back to normal time.) 
CHAPEL: He's gone. 
MCCOY: Just like Compton. 
[Transporter room]
(The transporter is repaired and the three other Scalosians are beamed down.) 
RAEL: I've beamed the others down. 
DEELA [OC]: Is it repaired already? 
[Kirk's quarters]
DEELA: Why didn't you tell me? 
[Transporter room]
RAEL: It would've been an intrusion. Come up when you wish. Signal me when you are ready. 
[Kirk's quarters]
DEELA: Where will you be? 
RAEL [OC]: In life support. I have to activate our unit. 
DEELA: Rael, wait. I'm sorry. 
[Transporter room]
RAEL: I know. 
(Kirk and Deela walk past Scott, still in the doorway.) 
DEELA: Well, come, Captain. It's time to leave your pretty ship. 
[Environmental Engineering]
(Rael switches on the refrigerator unit.) 
RAEL: The unit is activated, Deela. Beam down at once. 
[Transporter room]
DEELA: Your crew will be all right. You said so yourself. 
(Kirk takes her weapon from her sleeve.) 
KIRK: I'm sorry. 
(Kirk leaves.) 
DEELA: (into comm.) He's broken away. He's armed. 
[Environmental Engineering]
RAEL; I'm ready for him. 
(Kirk meets Spock in the corridor, and they stand either side of the door. Rael fires once, turns, and Kirk fires at him. This time Rael falls slowly to the floor. Then Kirk destroys the unit. Deela arrives and all three enter the room properly.) 
DEELA: You are very clever, Captain. You tricked me. I should've known that you would never adjust. What shall we expect from you now? 
KIRK: We could put you in suspended animation until we determine what to do with you. 
DEELA: Your survival does not depend on that. 
KIRK: No, it doesn't. What do you want us to do with you? 
DEELA: Don't make a game of it, Captain. We've lost. 
KIRK: If I sent you to Scalos, you'd undoubtedly play the same trick on the next spaceship that passed by. 
DEELA: There won't be any others. You'll warn them. Your federation will quarantine the entire area. 
KIRK: Yes, I suppose it would. 
DEELA: And we will die and solve your problem that way. And ours. 
[Transporter room]
(Scott is a little further into the room.) 
DEELA: Now, what about your problem, Captain, and your Vulcan friend? 
SPOCK: If you will devote yourself exclusively to the concerns of Scalos, madam, we shall be pleased to remain and take care of the Enterprise. 
DEELA: You could still find life on Scalos very pleasant. 
KIRK: And very brief. 
DEELA: It'll be just as brief here. You cannot get back to your own level. No answer, Captain? Do I displease you so much? 
KIRK: Oh, no. I can think of nothing I'd rather do than stay with you. Except staying alive. 
(Deela joins Rael on the transporter pad.) 
KIRK: Energise. 
DEELA: Goodbye, Captain. 
(They are beamed away.) 
KIRK: Well, Mister Spock, what have you got? 
SPOCK: Doctor McCoy and I have synthesised a possible counteragent to the Scalosian water. Regrettably, we did not have the opportunity to test it. 
KIRK: Let's test it. (drinks the contents of a small vial) Nothing's happening. 
SPOCK: You do seem to be moving very slowly, Captain. 
KIRK: Mister Spock. 
SCOTT: Captain Kirk, where the blazes did you come from? 
KIRK: Out of the nowhere into the here. 
SCOTT: And Mister Spock, is he coming too? 
KIRK: Scotty. 
Captain's log, Stardate 5710.9. Mister Spock has remained in accelerated time so that he might repair the ship more rapidly. 
SULU: Somebody's repairing every console on the ship. 
SCOTT: This panel is being recircuited at incredible speed. 
KIRK: I think we've located Mister Spock. Lieutenant, are your circuits clearing? 
UHURA: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Cancel Red Alert, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
KIRK: Open all channels. Captain to crew. Repairs are now being effected by Mister Spock. The ship will resume normal operations almost immediately. 
(Spock returns to normal time.) 
KIRK: Mister Spock, my compliments to your repair work and yourself. 
SPOCK: Thank you, Captain. I found it an accelerating experience. 
KIRK: Yes. No malfunctions anywhere? (sees the Scalosians on the viewscreen) Lieutenant. 
UHURA: I'm sorry, sir. I touched the tape button accidentally. I'll take it off. 
KIRK: That's no malfunction. 
UHURA: No, sir. 
KIRK: Goodbye Deela. 

