Episode Number: 36
The Star Trek Transcripts - Wolf In The Fold
Wolf In The Fold
Stardate: 3614.9
Original Airdate: 22 Dec, 1967
[Cafe]
(A woman is doing a belly-dance, complete with finger-cymbals, while the patrons lounge on cushions. The audience are appreciating the show.) 
SCOTT: Captain, I think I'm going to like Argelius. 
KIRK: Obviously a man of good taste. 
SCOTT: You mean to tell me all these women, that all this is 
KIRK: Yes, yes, yes. The Argelians think very highly of their pleasure. 
MCCOY: That's an understatement if I ever heard one. This is a completely hedonistic society. 
KIRK: Do you like her, Scotty? 
SCOTT: Aye. Why shouldn't I? 
KIRK: Good. I've invited her to join us at the table. I thought you might like to meet her. 
SCOTT: Now that's what I call a real Captain. Always thinking of his men. 
(The dancer comes over, bends over backwards then does a shimmy before returning to the small stage to finish. Scotty bangs on the table in applause.) 
KIRK: Scotty, Scotty. In Argelius they use the lights. 
SCOTT: Now no one has to tell an old Aberdeen pub-crawler how to applaud, Captain. 
(She comes over, but the man at the next table doesn't look too pleased with the situation.) 
KIRK: Have one of our pillows? 
(The man leaves as she sits.) 
SCOTT: 'Tis a fine foggy night tonight, and I doubt if anyone's ever told you of the marvellous fogs we have in Aberdeen. 
KARA: Never a word, but I'm dying to learn. 
SCOTT: Well then, why don't I show you? There's nothing like a walk in the fog with a bonny lass. 
KARA: Or a handsome gentleman. Why don't we? 
SCOTT: You don't mind, do you? I might even get back to the ship on time. 
KIRK: We won't leave without you, Scotty. Relax and enjoy yourself. (Scott and Kara leave) My work is never done. 
MCCOY: My work, Jim. This is prescription stuff. Don't forget, the explosion that threw Scotty against a bulkhead was caused by a woman. 
KIRK: Physically he's all right. Am I right in assuming that? 
MCCOY: Oh, yes, yes. As a matter of fact, considerable psychological damage could have been caused. For example, his total resentment toward women. 
KIRK: He seems he's overcoming his resentment. 
MCCOY: Of course, in my professional opinion, when he gets back to the ship, he's going to hate you for making him leave Argelius. But then he will have lost total resentment toward women. 
KIRK: Mission accomplished as far as Scotty is concerned. Bones, I know a little place across town where the women 
MCCOY: Oh yes. I know the place. Let's go. 
[Street]
(The fog hangs very low on Argelius - somewhere just below knee level. Couples are meandering along lost in each other. Kirk works out which way to go, then suddenly - a scream splits the night. They run towards it and find the dancer on the ground.) 
MCCOY: She's dead, Jim. 
KIRK: Stabbed, a dozen times. 
(And standing by a wall, groaning, with a bloody knife in his hand, is Montgomery Scott. 
Captain's log, stardate 3614.9. Planet Argelius Two. While on therapeutic shore leave, Mister Scott has fallen under suspicion of having brutally murdered an Argelian woman. The chief city administrator, Mister Hengist, has taken charge of the investigation, but has learned little of value. 
[Cafe]
HENGIST: (a neat man in a suit) I don't know what to say, gentlemen. Argelius is the last planet in the galaxy I'd expect a thing like this to happen. 
KIRK: We're just as shocked as you are, Mister Hengist. 
HENGIST: If this was my home planet, Rigel Four, I'd have a dozen investigators working on the matter, but they don't exist here. 
MCCOY: You're not a native of Argelius, sir? 
HENGIST: Oh, no. Argelius hires its administrative officers from other planets. The Argelians aren't very efficient, you know. Gentle, harmless people. Mister Scott. Mister Scott? Now, are you sure you've never seen this before? (the knife) 
SCOTT: I, I don't remember. 
HENGIST: Really, sir. That is hardly helpful. 
KIRK: Scotty, you left the cafe with the girl. Do you remember that? What happened next? 
SCOTT: We were walking in the fog. I was up ahead trying to lead the way. I heard the girl scream. I remember starting to turn. I don't remember another thing. 
KIRK: Scotty, you've got to remember. 
MCCOY: Jim. (they move off a little way) If he says he can't remember, he probably doesn't. You know Scotty. 
KIRK: I know a murder's been committed. 
MCCOY: You don't think by any chance that Scotty 
KIRK: It doesn't make any difference what I think. 
MCCOY: But you don't just throw him to the wolves. 
KIRK: Bones, I have a diplomatic responsibility. This happened under Argelian jurisdiction. If they want to arrest him, try him, even convict him, I have to go along with it. 
MCCOY: But he's suffering from a severe concussion. 
KIRK: We'll do what we can. 
HENGIST: It's not promising, Captain. Mister Scott insists he remembers nothing, but my detector readings indicates that only his fingerprints are on the murder weapon. 
KIRK: Yes. Mister Hengist, there were other people in the cafe about the time of the murder. Several of them left just before Mister Scott and the girl did. 
HENGIST: So I've been informed by the staff. They're being located and we will question them. But the outlook for your friend is quite grim. 
KIRK: What's the law in these cases? 
JARIS: The law of Argelius is love. 
(An elegant grey-haired man enters, with a woman.) 
HENGIST: Gentlemen, our prefect, Jaris. Sir, Captain Kirk, Doctor McCoy. 
JARIS: And this is my wife, Sybo. 
HENGIST: And this man is Scott, the one I sent you the message about. 
JARIS: He does not look like a man capable of such an act. Still, it's been so long. Gentlemen, before our great awakening two hundred years ago, we had ways of learning the truth in such matters. We shall return to them. 
MCCOY: The Argelian empathic contact? 
JARIS: You know of this? 
KIRK: Yes, we've heard of it. I assumed it was a lost art. 
JARIS: My wife is a descendent of the ancient priestesses of our land. She has the ancestral gift. Gentlemen, I have come to invite you to my home. 
HENGIST: Prefect, don't you think this should be handled in an official manner through my office? 
JARIS: It shall be handled in an official manner, Mister Hengist, since I am the highest official. Gentlemen, let us proceed to my home where, with the aid of my wife, we shall learn the truth. Please. 
[Jaris' home]
(The middle eastern theme continues with spiral columns, onion-dome arches, latticed windows and plenty of cushions.) 
KIRK: Depending on your wife's empathic abilities is all very well, Prefect, but there's only one way we can find out what it is Mister Scott cannot remember. Since you find it impossible to let us go back up to our ship, I can beam down a technician with a psycho-tricorder. 
MCCOY: Prefect, it will give us a detailed account of everything that's happened to Mister Scott in the last twenty four hours. 
HENGIST: Oh, I'd advise against it, Prefect. This is purely an Argelian matter. 
JARIS: My wife must meditate for a time before she's ready. I see no reason why we should not use that time to good advantage. Very well, Captain. 
KIRK: Kirk to Enterprise. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Enterprise. Spock here. 
[Jaris' home]
KIRK: Mister Spock, beam down a technician with a psycho-tricorder, please. Use these co-ordinates. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Acknowledged. Co-ordinates received. 
[Jaris' home]
KIRK: Kirk out. 
MCCOY: Prefect, the psycho-tricorder will require privacy to be effective. 
JARIS: There is a small chamber below this room. Perhaps that will suffice. Captain, news of this frightful murder is spreading among my people. They're greatly disturbed. I have already heard talk of closing Argelius to space vehicles. 
KIRK: Well, that would be most unfortunate. Argelian hospitality is well-known, as well as its strategic importance as a space port. 
JARIS: Yes. I believe it's the only one in the quadrant. (hands out drinks) Captain. 
HENGIST: There are other people we should question. Perhaps I should go expedite their arrival here? 
JARIS: Yes, please do so, Mister Hengist. Anyone with any connection with this murder should be present at the ceremony. 
(A woman beams down as Hengist leaves.) 
KAREN: Lieutenant Karen Tracy reporting as ordered, Captain. 
KIRK: Lieutenant, I want a twenty four hour regressive memory check made on Mister Scott. 
KAREN: Yes, Captain. Where shall I set up? 
JARIS: If you'll Just follow me, Lieutenant. 
(Jaris and Karen leave.) 
KIRK: Scotty, co-operate completely with Lieutenant Tracy. Maybe we'll clear this thing up. 
SCOTT: I certainly hope so, sir. I can't stand this not knowing. (leaves) 
MCCOY: Captain, under normal conditions, Scotty would have never done such a thing. 
KIRK: But that blow on the head. It could put all his previous behaviour patterns into the junk heap. 
MCCOY: Of course, there's another possibility. 
KIRK: Explain. 
MCCOY: Hysterical amnesia. When a man feels guilty about something, something too terrible to remember, he blots it out of his conscious memory. 
(Jaris returns and crosses to another doorway.) 
JARIS: Are you ready, Sybo? 
SYBO: I am ready. May I have the knife, please? 
JARIS: Certainly. Among other gifts, Sybo has the ability to receive impressions from inanimate objects. Do you have it, Captain? 
KIRK: The knife? No. 
JARIS: But I put it here when we arrived. It's gone. 
(A woman's scream fills the air.) 
[Chamber]
(Karen Tracy is lying face down on the floor, and Scott is slumped unconscious in a chair.) 
KIRK: Scotty. 
MCCOY: She's dead, Jim. Just like the other one. 
KIRK: Stabbed over and over again. 
[Jaris' home]
JARIS: (to Scott) Drink this. An Argelian stimulant, Doctor. Quite effective and quite harmless. 
MCCOY: Go ahead, Scotty. 
SCOTT: Lieutenant? Captain? Where's 
KIRK: Lieutenant Tracy is dead, Scott. You were found alone in the room. 
SCOTT: Dead? But I 
KIRK: What happened down there? 
SCOTT: I was sitting there. She was taking her readings, and now I'm sitting here. 
MCCOY: Is that all that happened? 
SCOTT: I tell you, I don't remember. I must have passed out. 
MCCOY: It could be, Jim. That head injury. 
KIRK: That head injury. Think, Scotty. 
SCOTT: Captain, I've been trying. I can't even believe this is really happening. 
KIRK: There's no way into that place from up here. Prefect, is there another entrance to that chamber? 
JARIS: Yes, there's a door that leads into the garden, but it's been locked for years. 
MCCOY: Locks can be picked, Jim. 
KIRK: Check it. 
(McCoy leaves and Hengist enters. He is accompanied by the man from the next table and one of the musicians.) 
HENGIST: Prefect, both of these men were at the cafe the night of the murder. 
KIRK: Where've they been during the past few minutes? 
HENGIST: Captain, if you don't mind please. 
KIRK: There's been another murder, Hengist. One of my crew. 
JARIS: The same as Kara. 
HENGIST: Why, that's terrible. (to the man from the next table) You, my men picked you up near there. What were you doing? 
MORLA: Please, I know nothing about it. I didn't kill anyone. 
HENGIST: Well, how was the girl killed? 
KIRK: Stabbed. And there's no sign of the weapon. 
HENGIST: If only I had facilities. 
KIRK: You. You were a musician at the cafe. You played for the murdered girl. 
TARK: Since she was a little girl, she danced for me. She was my daughter. Prefect, how could this thing have happened here? The man who did it must be found. He must be punished. 
KIRK: And you. You left the cafe before Scott and Kara. 
JARIS: Is this true? Who are you? 
MORLA: Morla of Cantaba Street, Prefect. I was there. I have nothing to hide. 
KIRK: Did you know Kara? 
TARK: Of course he knew her. They were to be married, but he behaved disgracefully. Unheard of. He was jealous of her. 
JARIS: That is very disquieting. 
MORLA: I know it was wrong, but I just couldn't help myself. I loved her, and when she went over to the table with these men, I could not stand to watch, so I left and went home. 
KIRK: Jealousy has often been a motive for murder. 
JARIS: Yes, I know. That is why the emotion is so strongly disapproved of here. 
MORLA: Prefect, I didn't kill anyone. I couldn't. 
JARIS: We shall see, Morla. 
MCCOY: Sorry, Jim. The lock may or may not have been picked. It would be hard to tell even with the tricorder. 
KIRK: Can you prove you went directly home? 
HENGIST: Captain, may I continue with the questions please? 
KIRK: Well get on with it, man. Just don't stand there. 
JARIS: Captain, Captain. You're behaving very much like a man who is desperately trying anything to save his friend. Would you be as desperate to save Argelius as a space port for your Starfleet? 
KIRK: Well of course I'm trying to save my friend, if he's innocent. And he hasn't been proven guilty. 
HENGIST: Need I remind you of the circumstances, Captain? In both cases, your friend Scott was discovered over the body and later claimed to remember nothing. 
SYBO: I am ready, Jaris. 
JARIS: Gentlemen, sit down please. 
(Everyone sits around the central brazier.) 
KIRK: On one condition, Prefect. That the room be sealed so that no one can leave or enter while the ceremony is going on. 
JARIS: (he flicks a row of switches and the doorways are closed) The room is sealed. 
SCOTT: Captain, you mean my neck is going to have to depend on some spooky mumbo jumbo? 
(Kirk's communicator beeps.) 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
SPOCK [OC]: Spock here, Captain. May I have a word with you? 
KIRK: Yes. Excuse me, gentlemen. (moves away from the group) Yes, Mister Spock? 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Concerning the situation you related to us. In my opinion, the Argelian empathic contact is an interesting phenomenon, but the technique is not sound enough to risk a man's life. 
[Jaris' home]
KIRK: What do you suggest, Mister Spock? 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Simply that we beam Mister Scott on board the Enterprise and employ our computers to learn the truth. 
[Jaris' home]
KIRK: These are a proud people. They have their own customs, their own laws, and while we're here we're subject to them. It is absolutely imperative that this matter be resolved according to Argelian law. Is that clear? 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Quite clear, Captain. 
[Jaris' home]
KIRK: I don't like it any more than you do, Spock, but there's nothing we can do about it. Kirk out, 
(Everyone is holding hands around the brazier.) 
SYBO: Let us begin. Let the circle not be broken. Concentrate upon the flame which burns upon the altar of truth. 
Yes, there is something here. Something terrible. I feel its presence. Fear, anger, hatred. Anger feeds the flame. Oh! Oh! There is evil here. Monstrous, terrible evil. Consuming hunger. Hatred of all that lives. Hatred of women. A hunger that never dies. It is strong, overpowering. An ancient terror. It has a name. Beratis, Kesla, Redjac! Devouring all life, all light. A hunger that will never die! Redjac! Redjac! 
(The lights go out, and she screams. When the lights come on again, the flame has gone out. Scott is standing holding Sybo in his arms, then he lets her go and she falls forward across McCoy's lap. There is a knife in her back. 
Later...)
KIRK: Three murders, and Scotty the only possible answer each time. 
MCCOY: I don't care what the circumstances indicate, Jim. Scotty simply could not have done it. 
KIRK: Normally, no, but that blow on his head could 
SCOTT: No, Captain. 
KIRK Scotty, I'm sorry. You don't even remember whether you did it or not. 
HENGIST: I agree with you, Captain. I'm perfectly satisfied Mister Scott is guilty. 
KIRK: But not responsible. 
HENGIST: That is unproven, sir. 
KIRK: We can prove it, if he's insane. 
JARIS: Gentlemen, please. How could any man do such monstrous things? 
KIRK: That's what we hope to find out, sir. 
JARIS: Mister Scott? 
SCOTT: Sir, I swear to you I did not kill your wife or the other ladies. 
HENGIST: By your own admission, you don't know whether you did or didn't. Your so-called failing memory 
KIRK: Mister Hengist. On the Enterprise, we can make a recording of the registrations of Mister Scott's conscious and subconscious mind. They will tell us what happened to him in the recent past. 
MCCOY: There would be no room for doubt. We would know. And after all, that's what we're after, isn't it, Prefect? To know? 
JARIS: You, sir, claim to remember nothing about the murders. 
SCOTT: Aye. 
JARIS: If this is so, you may have killed without knowing it. Will your machines tell us this? 
KIRK: No doubt will remain. 
JARIS: Very well. We will go to your ship, and he who is guilty will face the ancient penalties, barbaric and horrible though they may be. The ancient penalty for murder was death by slow torture. That law has never been changed. Do you understand that, Mister Scott? 
SCOTT: Aye. I understand. 
Captain's log, stardate 3615.4. With Mister Scott in a technical state of arrest, we have beamed aboard the Enterprise to continue the investigation. 
[Briefing room]
KIRK: Each testifier will sit here, place his hand on this plate. Any deviation from factual truth will be immediately detected and relayed to this computer which will in turn notify us. Doctor McCoy has already fed the computer his medical reports. Our laboratory experts are examining the murder weapon and will give their data to the computers for analysis. Shall we begin? 
(Jaris nods.) 
KIRK: Mister Scott, will you take the stand? 
(Scott sits on the raised chair and puts his right hand on the sensor plate. Yet at no time does the camera let us see all his finger.) 
KIRK: Computer, identify verification. 
COMPUTER: Working. Lieutenant Commander Montgomery Scott. Serial number SE-19754-T. Verified. 
KIRK: Subject's present physical condition. 
COMPUTER: Working. Subject recently received severe blow on skull. Damage healing. Some peripheral abnormalities. 
KIRK: Sufficient abnormalities to account for periods of functional amnesia? 
COMPUTER: Working. Negative. 
MCCOY: Captain, I don't see how that can be. 
KIRK: Unless Scotty's lying about his loss of memory. 
SCOTT: I'm not lying, Captain. I don't remember a thing about the first two murders. 
KIRK: Computer, accuracy scan. 
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes. 
SCOTT: Captain? I didn't black out when Mister Jaris' wife was killed. 
KIRK: All right, Scotty, let's have it. 
SCOTT: We were holding hands. When the lights went out, the circle was broken. I heard the poor lady scream, and as I was near the head of the table anyway I went toward her. But there was something in my way. 
KIRK: Something? You mean someone. 
SCOTT: No, Captain, some thing. Cold, it was, like a stinking draught out of a slaughterhouse, but it wasn't really there. Like it. (lost for words) If you know what I mean. 
KIRK: Computer. 
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes. 
KIRK: All right. Let's hit it on the head. Scotty, did you kill Sybo? 
SCOTT: No, Captain. That I'm sure of. 
HENGIST: He's been saying that right along. It means no more now than it did before. 
KIRK: Scotty, lie to me. How old are you? 
SCOTT: Twenty two sir. 
COMPUTER: Inaccurate. Inaccurate. Data in error. 
KIRK: After the lights went out, Mister Scott, who was holding your hand? 
SCOTT: Morla on the one side and you on the other, sir. 
MORLA: But that doesn't mean anything, Captain, with a room that small. The lights were out. Anyone would've had time to kill the lady. 
HENGIST: But I remind you we found Mister Scott holding her in his arms, the knife still (to Jaris) I'm sorry, sir, but I must. The knife still in her back and blood on his hands. 
KIRK: The verifier showed that he was telling the truth when he said he didn't kill her. 
HENGIST: There were two other women murdered. 
KIRK: Mister Scott. Did you kill Kara? 
SCOTT: I don't remember. 
KIRK: Did you kill Lieutenant Tracy? 
SCOTT: I don't remember. 
KIRK: Computer, accuracy scan. 
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account. No physiological changes. 
JARIS: All that proves is that he's telling the truth when he says he doesn't remember. 
HENGIST: This is a waste of time. 
KIRK: After we take the testimony here, we'll run a psycho-tricorder analysis of Mister Scott's memory, which is what we wanted to do on the surface. That will give us a complete record. Will that satisfy you, Mister Hengist? 
HENGIST: Well, if you can convince me that the machine is incapable of error, and if it shows he did not kill the women. 
KIRK: There will be no error. As for the rest of it, the readings will show. You can step down, Mister Scott, if there are no objections. 
HENGIST: I object to the entire procedure. 
JARIS: Mister Hengist, we are here on my authority. We will co-operate. 
HENGIST: Prefect, I know you mean well, but I've had experience 
JARIS: For the time being, we will accept Captain Kirk's explanation of the machine's accuracy as factual. I do, however, reserve to myself the right to make the final determination. 
KIRK: We can ask no more. Mister Morla, will you take the stand? 
(He does so.) 
KIRK: Where were you at the time that Kara was murdered? 
MORLA: I'm not sure. Walking home, I assume. I was angry. 
SPOCK: Anger is a relative state, sir. Were you angry enough to do violence? 
MORLA: I've never done violence in my life. I don't think I could. You've got to believe me. I wouldn't kill her. I couldn't. I loved her, and she loved me. 
TARK: That's not true! He might think she loved him, but she didn't. She told me. He was jealous. All the time. They fought constantly. 
KIRK: Did you kill Lieutenant Tracy? 
MORLA: No. 
KIRK: Did you kill Sybo? 
MORLA: No. 
KIRK: Computer, verification scan. 
COMPUTER: Subject relaying accurate account, though some statements subjective. No physiological changes. 
KIRK: All right, Mister Morla, I think you can step down now. Sybo spoke of a hunger that never dies. Something that thrives on fear, terror, death. Mister Spock, maybe we're going about it in the wrong way. Let's assume that Sybo was a sensitive. That she did sense something, something evil. 
SPOCK: Sensitivity of certain Argelian women is a documented fact, Captain. 
JARIS: My poor Sybo's talent was genuine, gentlemen. What she told you was true. 
KIRK: All right, then, what was it she said, exactly? A monstrous evil, ancient terror. 
MCCOY: That devours all life and light. 
KIRK: She said something else, words that didn't make sense. 
MCCOY: Yes. Redjac, Beratis and, er, Kesla. 
KIRK: Obscure, meaningless words. 
SPOCK: To us, perhaps, but to the computer? 
KIRK: Ah. Mister Spock, check them out. 
SPOCK: Computer, linguistic bank. Definition of following word. Redjac. 
COMPUTER: Working. Negative finding. 
SPOCK: There is no such word in the linguistics bank? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
SPOCK: Scan all other banks. 
COMPUTER: Working. Affirmative. A proper name. 
SPOCK: Define. 
COMPUTER: Redjac. Source Earth, nineteenth century. Language, English. Nickname for mass murderer of women. Other Earth synonym, Jack the Ripper. 
KIRK: Jack the Ripper? 
HENGIST: That's ridiculous. He lived hundreds of years ago. 
TARK: A man couldn't survive all these centuries. 
JARIS: Just before she died, my wife said, it is a hunger that never dies. 
TARK: But all men die. 
KIRK: Yes, all men die. And Jack the Ripper couldn't be alive if he were a man. But everything we've uncovered points to Jack the Ripper, which is an impossibility, isn't it? Or is it? 
SPOCK: Humans and humanoids make up only a small percentage of the life forms we know of. There are entities possessed of extremely long life spans, virtually immortal. 
KIRK: We know that someone or something killed three women. If it's impossible for it to be human, it has to be something else. Something driven to kill. 
MCCOY: Sybo said it feeds on death. 
SPOCK: In the strict scientific sense, Doctor, we all feed on death. Even vegetarians. 
MCCOY: Yes, but she said more than that. Not just death, but fear. She said it also feeds on fear. 
SPOCK: Which would tend to support the proposition that the murderer was not human. Deriving sustenance from emotion is not unknown in the galaxy, and fear is among the strongest and most violent of the emotions. 
HENGIST: Surely, Prefect, this has gone far enough. Someone, some man has killed three women. We have the prime suspect in our hands. Are we going to let him go and start chasing ghosts? 
KIRK: No, Mister Hengist, not ghosts. Possibly not human, but not ghosts. Mister Spock, check out the possibilities. 
SPOCK: Computer, digest log recordings for past five solar minutes. Correlate hypotheses. Compare with life forms register. Question. Could such an entity within discussed limits exist in this galaxy? 
COMPUTER: The Drella of Alpha Carinae Five derives nourishment from the emotion of love. There is sufficient precedent for existence of creature, nature unknown, which could exist on emotion of fear. 
SPOCK: Computer, extrapolate most likely composition of such entity. 
SPOCK: Working. To meet with specified requirements, entity would exist without form in conventional sense. Most probable mass of energy of highly cohesive electromagnetic field. 
KIRK: Computer, could the described entity assume physical form? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Precedent, mellitus, cloud creature of Alpha Majoris One. 
HENGIST: Fairy tales. Ghosts and goblins. 
KIRK: No, I've seen the mellitus myself. In its natural state, it's gaseous. When it's at rest, it's solid. Mister Spock, let's assume the existence of this creature. 
SPOCK: I point out that Jack the Ripper slew at will in the heart of the most populous city of old Earth and was never identified. 
KIRK: Doesn't seem likely, does it? 
SPOCK: I suggest the possibility of a hypnotic screen, which blinds all but the victim to the presence of the killer. 
JARIS: Is that possible? 
MCCOY: Extremely possible There are many such examples that exist in nature. 
HENGIST: This is fantasy! We all know the murderer is sitting right here. You're trying to cloud the issue. I've got a mind to 
JARIS: I am satisfied the course of this investigation is valid enough. Please be seated, Mister Hengist. 
KIRK: All right, Mister Spock, what do we have? A creature without form, that feeds on horror and fear, that must assume a physical shape to kill. 
SPOCK: And I suspect preys on women because women are more easily and more deeply terrified, generating more sheer horror than the male of the species. 
KIRK: Computer. Criminological files. Cases of unsolved mass murders of women since Jack the Ripper. 
COMPUTER: Working. 1932. Shanghai, China, Earth. Seven women knifed to death. 1974, Kiev, USSR, Earth. Five women knifed to death. 2105. Martian colonies. Eight women knifed to death. 2156. Heliopolis, Alpha Eridani Two. Ten women knifed to death. There are additional examples. 
SPOCK: Captain, those places are aligned directly between Argelius and Earth. 
KIRK: Yes. When man moved out into the galaxy, that thing must've moved with him. Computer, identify the proper names Kesla and Beratis. 
COMPUTER: Working. Kesla. Name given to unidentified mass murderer of women on planet Deneb Two. Beratis. Name given to unidentified mass murderer of women on planet Rigel Four. Additional data. Murders on Rigel Four occurred one solar year ago. 
(All heads turn towards Mister Hengist) 
KIRK: You come from Rigel Four. 
HENGIST: Well, many people do. It's not a crime. 
KIRK: No, but what we're investigating is. Would you mind taking the stand, Mister Hengist? 
HENGIST: I will not. 
JARIS: Mister Hengist. 
HENGIST: Prefect, this has gone far enough. I will not take the stand. 
SPOCK: I can appreciate your position, sir. You are in charge of civil disturbances locally. If you are the entity for which we search, what better position from which to kill with impunity? 
MCCOY: Just after you left Jaris' house, we discovered the murder knife was missing. 
KIRK: And you were unaccounted for when Lieutenant Tracy was murdered. 
SPOCK: An entity which feeds on fear and terror would find a perfect hunting ground on Argelius, a planet without violence, where the inhabitants are as peaceful as sheep. The entity would be as a hungry wolf in that fold. 
HENGIST: Gentlemen, I know something of the law. You're engaging in sheer speculation. 
KIRK: Perhaps. Mister Spock. The murder weapon. 
SPOCK: Computer. Report on analysis of Exhibit A. 
COMPUTER: Working. Exhibit A on visual. Composition of blade, boridium. Composition of handle, murinite. Details of carving on handle conform to folk art forms, indicating place of origin. 
SPOCK: Specify. Point of origin. 
COMPUTER: Artefact produced by hill people of Argus River region, planet Rigel Four. 
KIRK: Now then, Mister Hengist 
(But Hengist tries to make a break for it, even landing a very good kick on Kirk, who repays him with an even better right cross. Hengist falls to the floor.) 
MCCOY: He's dead, Jim. 
KIRK: But that's impossible. 
(The lights dim eerily.) 
VOICE [OC]: Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! (maniacal laughter) 
(The lights come back.) 
SPOCK: The computer will not respond to these controls. The entity is unquestionably controlling it. 
KIRK: And the computer controls the ship. 
VOICE [OC]: Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! Redjac! 
MCCOY: Scotty, give me a hand. (They prop Hengist up on a chair, leaning against the table.) 
SPOCK: It's no use, Captain. The bypass circuits are blocked. 
KIRK: Audio cut off, Spock. 
SCOTT: Captain! 
(The viewscreen has an image of hot swirling flames or lava. Anyway, it is fear-inducing.) 
TANKRIS: (a lady yeoman) What's happening, Captain? 
JARIS: What does it mean? 
KIRK: It means that thing can control the entire operation of the ship, including the life support systems. 
MORLA: You mean it could kill us all? 
SPOCK: Indeed, it will try, but not immediately. We know it feeds on fear and terror. There are nearly four hundred and forty humans aboard this ship. Surely it will try to breed fear and terror before it kills. 
KIRK: All hands, this is the captain. Stay at your posts. Remain calm. Captain out. Bones. What's the sedative situation? 
MCCOY: I've got some stuff that would tranquillise an active volcano. 
KIRK: Good. Start distribution immediately. The longer we can hold back that fear, the more time we'll have to get that thing out of the computer. Prefect, you'll all be safer here. Spock, come with me. 
[Corridor]
KIRK: Spock, don't you have a compulsory scan unit built into the computer banks? 
SPOCK: Yes we do, Captain, but with the entity in control 
KIRK: Aren't there certain mathematical problems which simply cannot be solved? 
SPOCK: Indeed. If we could focus the attention of the computer on one of them. 
KIRK: That ought to do it. 
[Turbolift]
KIRK: Spock! 
(The door nearly closes before he is inside.) 
SPOCK: Apparently our friends learned very quickly. 
KIRK: Too quickly. Bridge. 
(But the lights indicate they are going down quickly, not up.) 
SPOCK: Freefall! 
KIRK: Out of control. Put it on manual. Bridge. 
(They start going up, then an alarm goes off.) 
KIRK: That was due to be next. Life-support malfunction. 
SPOCK: We don't have much time, Captain. 
KIRK: You said it yourself, Spock. It wants terror, not just death. 
[Bridge]
SULU: Captain, the life-support system override jammed. 
KIRK: All right. Man your station, Mister Sulu. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
VOICE [OC]: Captain, you're wasting your time. 
KIRK: Cut that thing off. 
VOICE [OC]: You and all aboard your ship are about to die! 
KIRK: Try and cut that thing off. 
SULU: This is the first time I heard a malfunction threaten us. 
KIRK: Man your post, Mister Sulu. (to all the crew) Prepare your manual overrides. You may need them. 
SULU: Aye, sir. 
(Kirk crouches down by Spock under the life-support station.) 
KIRK: Spock. 
SPOCK: Normal environmental levels have been restored, Captain, but it will not last long. A few hours at best. 
KIRK: That should be enough time. Let's get at it. 
SULU: What's going on, Captain? 
KIRK: Never mind, Mister Sulu. 
(A nurse enters.) 
KIRK: Tranquilliser? 
NURSE: Yes, sir. 
KIRK: Everyone, including yourself. 
NURSE: Yes, sir. 
VOICE: You cannot stop me now, Captain. It will do you no good. I control all circuits. You cannot silence me. You cannot reach me. Your manual overrides are extremely limited in life. 
KIRK: Spock? 
SPOCK: Proceeding, Captain, but I will need some time. 
KIRK: Yes, I know. 
VOICE [OC]: Soon all control will be restored to me! There is nothing you can do to prevent it! 
KIRK: If you destroy this ship, you destroy yourself. 
VOICE [OC]: I am without ending. I have existed from the dawn of time, and I shall I live beyond its end! In the meantime, I shall feed, and this time I do not need a knife. You will all die horribly in searing pain! 
SPOCK: It is attempting to generate terror, Captain. 
VOICE [OC]: I can cut off your oxygen and suffocate you! 
SULU: Captain? (gets his injection, and grins) Who ever he is, he sure talks gloomy. 
KIRK: Man your post, Mister. If any of the other systems go out, switch to manual override, and above all, don't be afraid. 
SULU: With an armful of this stuff, I wouldn't be afraid of a supernova. 
SPOCK: Ready. 
KIRK: Implement. 
SPOCK: Computer, this is a Class A compulsory directive. Compute to the last digit the value of pi. 
VOICE [OC]: No, no, no, no! No, no! 
SPOCK: As we know, the value of pi is a transcendental figure without resolution. The computer banks will work on this problem to the exclusion of all else until we order it to stop. 
KIRK: Yes, that should keep that thing busy for a while. The Argelians will be the first to panic. Let's get back to the briefing room. 
SULU: I wonder who it is we're not supposed to be afraid of. 
[Briefing room]
(McCoy is in the process of inoculating the group. Scott feels no pain, that's for sure.) 
SCOTT: Well, sir? 
KIRK: I doubt very much whether the computers will be inhabited by more than a group of figures for a while. 
SPOCK: There is resistance, Captain, but the directive is succeeding. Bank after bank is turning to the problem. 
MCCOY: If you drive it out of the computers, it'll have to go somewhere else. 
KIRK: How are you doing? 
MCCOY: I'm almost finished. Just Jaris and me. 
(Maniacal laughter over the intercom.) 
SPOCK: Complete computer control, Captain. The entity has fled. 
KIRK: Yes, but where to? Bones, what would happen if that thing entered a tranquillised body? 
MCCOY: Well, it might take up knitting, but nothing more violent than that. 
KIRK: You say everyone's had a shot but you and Jaris? 
MCCOY: And you and Mister Spock, Captain. 
KIRK: Well, I'm willing to take a chance on Mister Spock. Better give yourself a shot, Doc. 
MCCOY: No, I don't think so. I think I ought to stay clear. 
KIRK: Do as I say. 
(McCoy injects himself.) 
KIRK: Extend your arm, Mister Jaris. 
JARIS: (grabs Kirk's throat) No, no, kill you all! Die! Make you suffer! 
(Spock administers a neck-pinch. Hengist comes back to life, snatches up the knife and grabs Yeoman Tankris.) 
HENGIST: Everybody keep back or I'll kill her! I'll kill her! Keep back! 
MCCOY: You'd better be careful. You're going to hurt somebody with that thing. 
(Hengist pushes his hostage at McCoy then tries to attack Kirk. He's easily defeated.) 
HENGIST: You'll suffer! You'll suffer. (Spock injects him) I'll kill all of you. 
KIRK: Let's get him to the Transporter Room, quick! 
HENGIST: You'll die, die, die. Everybody will die. 
[Corridor]
(Kirk carries the giggling Hengist in a fireman's lift, while Spock follows.) 
HENGIST: Kill, kill, kill you all. 
[Transporter room]
KIRK: Deep space. Full power. Widest angle of dispersion. Maintain. 
KYLE: No need to get excited, Captain. I'll do it. 
(They lay Hengist on the pad.) 
KIRK: You do it, Spock. 
HENGIST: Everybody die. You'll all suffer. 
(He is beamed out.) 
KYLE: You didn't have to shove me, Mister Spock. I'd have gotten round to it. 
(McCoy and Scott enter, with big grins.) 
MCCOY: Well, Jaris is all right. 
SCOTT: What did you do with that thing, Captain? Did you send it back to the planet? 
KIRK: No. We beamed it out into open space, Scotty. Widest possible dispersion. 
MCCOY: That thing can't die. 
SPOCK: Possibly, Doctor. Its consciousness may continue for some time, consisting of billions of separate bits of energy, floating forever in space, powerless. 
KIRK: But it will die finally. You seem very happy about the whole thing. 
SCOTT: Why not? For a while there I didn't know whether I was innocent or guilty. 
KIRK: Bones, how long will it take for this tranquilliser to wear off? 
MCCOY: I don't know. Five or six hours. I gave them a pretty big shot, Jim. 
KIRK: Yes, I can see that. Well Mister Spock, for the next five or six hours, we're going to have the happiest crew in space. Of course, we won't get much work done. 
SPOCK: Captain, since you came to Argelius to rest, I suggest you take advantage of the opportunity. 
KIRK: That's a splendid idea, Mister Spock. I know a cafe where the women are so 
MCCOY: I know the place, Jim. 
SCOTT: Let's go see! 
KIRK: You, gentlemen? In your condition? Don't be ridiculous. Mister Spock, this cafe has women that are so. (met with a Look) No, I guess not. Alone? 
(Kirk goes to the door and gestures for everyone to leave.) 
KIRK: Gentlemen. 

