Episode Number: 7
The Star Trek Transcripts - The Naked Time
The Naked Time
Stardate: 1704.2
Original Airdate: 29 Sep, 1966
Captain's Log. Our position, orbiting Psi 2000, an ancient world, now a frozen wasteland, about to rip apart in its death throes. Our mission, pick up a scientific party below, observe the disintegration of the planet. 
[Psi 2000 control room]
SPOCK: Check out the life-support systems. 
TORMOLEN: Right, sir. All life systems were off, sir.
SPOCK: Someone strangled this woman.
TORMOLEN The other four are back there.
SPOCK: Dead?
TORMOLEN: Right, sir.
SPOCK: Engineer at his post?
TORMOLEN He's frozen there like he didn't care.
SPOCK: The rest?
TORMOLEN: Well, better look for yourself, Mister Spock. One man was taking a shower fully clothed. (they split up, he takes off his glove to scratch his nose then puts it on the console. Something orange jumps onto his skin. Feeling the cold he puts the glove back on)
SPOCK: Be certain we expose ourselves to nothing. Spock here. Do you read, Enterprise? 
KIRK [OC]: Kirk, affirmative.
SPOCK: All station personnel are dead.
KIRK [OC]: What caused it?
SPOCK: Unknown, Captain. It's like nothing we've dealt with before. 
Captain's Log: Stardate 1704.2. The science party we were to have picked up has been found dead. Life support systems had been turned off. Station personnel, frozen to death. Conditions highly unusual. Meanwhile, we remain in orbit to complete our mission, close scientific measurement of the break-up of this planet. 
[Transporter room]
SPOCK: You received my signal, Mister Scott.
SCOTT: Yes, sir. Decontaminate. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Captain here. 
[Transporter room]
SCOTT: Spock and Tormolen aboard, sir. 
[Bridge]
SCOTT [OC]: We're holding them in the chamber for decontamination.
KIRK: Better have Medicine look them over too. Tell Mister Spock I'll meet him there in ten minutes. Kirk out. 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: You're fine, Joe. Up and out of there. Mister Spock? Your pulse is two hundred and forty two, your blood pressure is practically nonexistent, assuming you call that green stuff in your veins blood.
SPOCK: The readings are perfectly normal for me, Doctor, thank you, and as for my anatomy being different from yours, I am delighted. Captain.
KIRK: How are they?
MCCOY: They're fine, Jim. 
TORMOLEN: Terrible, Captain. It was terrible. They were just sitting, like they didn't care. Whatever was happening, they didn't care. I keep wondering
KIRK: You keep wondering if man was meant to be out here. You keep wondering, you keep signing on. Any guesses, Mister Spock? Any idea of what happened down there?
SPOCK: I wish I could say, Captain. The circumstances were quite bizarre, however our record tapes may show us something.
TORMOLEN: Six dead. Six people dead.
KIRK: You'd better get some rest.
TORMOLEN: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Set up those tapes, Mister Spock. We'll see if the answers are there. (leaves with Spock)
CHAPEL: The lab status report, Doctor.
MCCOY: Oh, thank you, Christine. 
[Briefing room]
SPOCK: Next tape, please.
RAND: Spectro-analysis tape, sir.
SPOCK: Thank you.
KIRK: Almost as though they were irrational, drugged. An engineer sitting there, apparently oblivious to everything. A woman strangled. A crewman with a phaser pistol in his hand.
SPOCK: He'd used the computer room as if it were an amusement gallery.
KIRK: And a fully clothed man frozen to death in a shower. If the image wasn't so ugly, it would be laughable. Not even a theory, gentlemen?
MCCOY: Definitely not drugs or intoxication. The bio-analysis on the tapes prove that conclusively.
SPOCK: It could be some form of space madness we've never heard of, but it would have to be caused by something. Our spectro-readings showed no contamination, no unusual elements present.
SCOTT: Or at least none your tricorders could register.
SPOCK: Instruments register only those things they're designed to register. Space still contains infinite unknowns.
KIRK: Earth Science needs the closest possible measurement of the breakup of this planet. To do this, we need the Enterprise in a critically tight orbit. Question. Could what happened down there to those people create any unusual danger to this vessel and crew?
SPOCK: We will need top efficiency, Captain. It'll be a tricky orbit. When the planet begins to go, there may be drastic changes in gravity, mass, magnetic field.
KIRK: The purpose of a briefing, gentlemen, is to get me answers based on your abilities and experience. In a critical orbit, there's no time for surprise. 
SCOTT: Unless you people on the Bridge start taking showers with your clothes on, my engines can pull us out of anything. We'll be warping out of orbit within a half second of getting your command.
UHURA [OC]: Bridge to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA [OC]: Scanners report sudden four degree shift in planet magnetic field. A change in mass also, sir.
SPOCK: It's beginning. Unusually rapid shifts.
KIRK: On our way, Lieutenant. I'll hold you to that half second, Scotty. 
[Rec room]
SULU: Foil. It's a rapier. A thin sword.
RILEY: All right. So what do you do with it?
SULU: What do you mean, what do you do with it?
RILEY: Self-defence? Mayhem? Shish kebab?
SULU: You practice.
RILEY: For what?
SULU: Hi, Joey.
RILEY: Last week it was botany he was trying to get me interested in. I was supposed to be collecting leaves, plant specimens.
SULU: Your attitude is all wrong. Fencing tones the muscle, sharpens the eye, improves the posture. You tell him, Joey. Explain to him. Hey, Joey. You feeling all right?
TORMOLEN: Get off me! You don't rank me and you don't have pointed ears, so just get off my neck!
SULU: What's with him?
TORMOLEN: Nothing!
UHURA [OC]: Attention. Engine room on standby alert. All duty personnel to the Bridge. Acknowledge.
SULU: You sure you're all right now, Joe? We've got to leave.
TORMOLEN: We're all a bunch of hypocrites. Sticking our noses into something that we've got no business. What are we doing out here, anyway?
SULU: Take it easy, Joe.
TORMOLEN: We bring pain and trouble with us, leave men and women stuck out on freezing planets until they die. What are we doing out here in space? Good? What good? We're polluting it, destroying it. We've got no business being out here. No business.
RILEY: Take it easy, Joe.
SULU: Now calm down.
TORMOLEN: If a man was supposed to fly, he'd have wings. If he was supposed to be out in space, he wouldn't need air to breathe, wouldn't need life-support systems to keep him from freezing to death.
RILEY: Hey, Joey, put the knife down, huh?
SULU: You're all steamed up, Joe.
TORMOLEN: We don't belong here. It's not ours. Not ours. Destroying and watching. We don't belong. I don't belong. Six people died down there. Why do I deserve to live?
SULU: What are you doing, Joe?
RILEY: Hey, Joey, put the knife down. (grabs his arm) Don't be a fool.
TORMOLEN: Let go!
RILEY: You're just getting in a sweat about (three men struggle) Let me have the knife!
SULU: Joey, don't be a fool.
TORMOLEN: Let me go.
RILEY: Joey, give me the knife. (they fall to the floor, Tormolen gets stabbed in the stomach) Emergency! Rec room, area three nine. We need medics! 
Captain's Log, supplemental. Our orbit tightening. Our need for efficiency, critical. But unknown to us, a totally new and unusual disease has been brought aboard. 
[Bridge]
RILEY: Relative gravity increasing, sir.
KIRK: Compensate, Mister Riley.
RILEY: Yes, sir.
SULU: Magnetic field continuing to shift, sir. Planet continuing to shrink in mass.
KIRK: Mister Spock?
SPOCK: All scanning stations manned, all recorders functioning, Captain.
RILEY: Orbit steady now, sir.
SPOCK: Obviously, this planet is condensing more rapidly than expected. A valuable study. We may be seeing Earth's distant future. Before its sun went dark, this planet was remarkably similar to yours.
SULU: Helm answering nicely, Captain.
KIRK: Good.
UHURA: Communications status, Captain.
KIRK: Tormolen's record?
SPOCK: Psychiatric file, personality quotients. 
KIRK: Was he trying to kill himself?
SPOCK: It's doubtful he meant to. He was confused, self-tortured.
KIRK: Doesn't sound like the man I know.
SPOCK: His capacity for self-doubt has always been rather high. What puzzles me is what brought it to the surface with so much force. 
[Sickbay]
CHAPEL: His breathing rate is dropping, Doctor.
MCCOY: Compensate with the respirator. Stand by to close. Closing. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: What is it?
SULU: Relative gravity increase, sir. Like the planet reached out and yanked at us.
KIRK: Compensate. (adjusts Riley's controls) Compensate.
RILEY: Orbit steady now, sir. May be a little nervous, I guess. 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: This shouldn't be happening. This man should be getting stronger. You sure the respirator's functioning properly? 
CHAPEL: Yes, Doctor.
MCCOY: Why is this man dying? Hypo.
CHAPEL: He's dead, Doctor.
MCCOY: The wounds were not that severe. 
[Bridge]
MCCOY [OC]: This is McCoy. Captain Kirk to Sickbay.
KIRK: Uhura, monitor communications. Tell McCoy I'll be there when I can.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: Planet breakup is imminent, Captain. Shrinking in size at an increasing rate. As the planet continues to shrink in size, its surface moves away from us. 
KIRK: Forcing us to spiral down to maintain the same distance from it.
SPOCK: Exactly. We must be prepared to respond instantly to any sudden change.
KIRK: Engine room from Bridge.
SCOTT [OC]: Scott here, Captain.
KIRK: Tie into the helm, Scotty. If we should call for power, we'll want it fast.
SCOTT [OC]: No problem, sir. You'll have it.
SPOCK: Rate of compaction seems constant.
KIRK: Then I'll go see what the good doctor wants. Keep me informed of any change, Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Acknowledged.
SULU: Don't know if it's this planet or what happened with Joe. I'm sweating like a bridegroom.
RILEY: Yeah, me too.
SULU: Hey, why don't you come down to the gym with me, Kevin m'lad?
RILEY: Now?
SULU: Why not? Light workout will take the edge off.
RILEY: Sulu, what about. Hey, Sulu, don't be a fool! 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Intestinal damage wasn't that severe. I got to him in plenty of time. That man should still be alive. The only reason he died, Jim, is he didn't want to live. He gave up.
KIRK: That's a supposition, Doctor, not a fact.
MCCOY: Well, that may be. Maybe. I've lost patients before, but not like that. Not Joe's kind. That kind of man doesn't give up.
KIRK: Coincidence? Maybe. 
MCCOY: You mean that Joe was down on the planet surface and you're gonna ask me if it's connected.
KIRK: That's exactly what I was going to ask.
MCCOY: Jim, he was decontaminated. He's been medically checked. We've run every test we know for everything we know.
KIRK: That's not good enough.
MCCOY: Well, we're doing everything that's possible.
KIRK: Bones, I want the impossible checked out too. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Why isn't Mister Sulu at this station?
RILEY: Magnetic pull compensated for, sir. Orbit steady.
SPOCK: Take over here, Rand. (a male, not Janice)
RAND: Yes, sir.
SPOCK: You haven't answered my question. Where is Mister Sulu?
RILEY: Have no fear, O'Riley's here. One Irishman is worth ten thousand of you
SPOCK: You're relieved, Mister Riley. Lieutenant Uhura, take over this station.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
RILEY: Now that's what I like. Let the women work too. Universal suffrage.
SPOCK: Report to Sickbay, Mister Riley.
RILEY: Sickbay? Exactly where I was heading, sir.
SPOCK: Security. Mister Riley is headed for Sickbay. See to it he arrives. Captain Kirk to the Bridge. 
[Sickbay]
RILEY: Where's Joe?
CHAPEL: Well.
RILEY: He died, didn't he.
CHAPEL: Yes.
RILEY: You know something? You have such lovely eyes, pretty lady. (touches her face)
CHAPEL: I know he was a friend of yours. This must be a terrible shock.
RILEY: You know what Joe's mistake was? He wasn't born an Irishman. 
[Corridor]
SULU: (brandishing foil) Richelieu, beware! Stand. No farther. No escape for you. You either leave this bois bloodied, or with my blood on your swords. Cowards! 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Lieutenant Brent, relieve Miss Uhura.
BRENT: Yes, sir.
KIRK: What were their symptoms?
SPOCK: Nonviolent at this stage. Slightly disoriented. Riley seemed rather pleased with himself, as if he were
KIRK: Irrational, or drugged.
SPOCK: Precisely.
KIRK: Security, Lieutenant Uhura.
UHURA: Yes, sir.
KIRK: Both Sulu and Riley, locate and confine. I want every crewman who comes in contact with them medically checked.
UHURA: Sir, level two, corridor three reports a disturbance. Mister Sulu chasing crewmen with a sword.
KIRK: Put Security on it.
SPOCK: Fascinating. A pattern is developing. First, Tormolen. Hidden personality traits being forced to the surface. Then Riley, who fancies himself a descendant of Irish kings, and now Sulu, who is at heart a swashbuckler out of your 18th century.
KIRK: Present condition of Psi 2000.
SPOCK: Gravity pull increasing. We've shifted to two percent and should stabilise our position.
KIRK: Helmsman, stabilise position.
BRENT: Helm is not answering to control.
KIRK: Warp us out of here.
BRENT: No response from engines, sir.
KIRK: Impulse power then. Blast us out of this orbit.
BRENT: Impulse engines also dead, sir.
SPOCK: Engine room, we need power!
KIRK: Mister Scott, acknowledge. Our controls are dead. Take her.
SULU: Richelieu, at last.
KIRK: Sulu, put that (discovers that the point is sharp) put that thing away.
SULU: For honour, Queen, and France! (lunges)
UHURA: Sulu.
SULU: Ah.
UHURA: Sulu, give me that.
SULU: I'll protect you, fair maiden.
UHURA: Sorry, neither.
SULU: Foul Richelieu. (distracted by Uhura's escape, Kirk is able to grab Sulu and Spock does a neck-pinch)
KIRK: I'd like you to teach me that sometime.
SPOCK: Take D'Artagnon here to Sickbay.
KIRK: Scotty, we need power. Engine room, acknowledge!
RILEY [OC]: You rang, sir?
KIRK: Who's this? 
[Engineering]
RILEY: This is Captain Kevin Thomas Riley of the starship Enterprise. 
[Bridge]
RILEY [OC]: And who is this?
KIRK: This is Captain Kirk. Get out of the engine room, navigator. Where's Mister Scott?
RILEY [OC]: I've relieved Mister Scott of his duties. Now, attention, cooks. This is your captain speaking. I would like double portions of ice cream for the entire crew.
KIRK: Clear that tube, will you?
UHURA: Yes, sir.
RILEY [OC]: And now, your captain will render an ancient Irish favourite. (sings) I'll take you home again Kathleen
SPOCK: Captain. At our present rate of descent, we have less than twenty minutes before we enter planet atmosphere.
KIRK: And burn up. I know, Mister Spock.
RILEY [OC]: Wild and wide to where your heart 
Captain's Log, stardate 1704.4. Ship out of control, spiraling down towards planet Psi 2000. We have nineteen minutes of life left without engine power or helm control. 
[Corridor outside Engineering]
KIRK: How did Riley get in there?
SCOTT: He ran in, said you wanted us on the Bridge.
KIRK: He's cut off both helm and power.
SCOTT: And he shut the door behind us and locked off the mechanism.
KIRK: Can't you get to the auxiliary?
SCOTT: I can't. He's hooked everything through the main panel in there. Get up to my office and pull the plans for this bulkhead. The only way to get that door open is to cut through these wall circuits here. 
[Engineering]
RILEY: (singing) The roses all have left your cheeks. I've watched them fade away and die 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Status reports, all sections.
UHURA: Mister Spock, a fight in the aft wardroom. Security reports incidents among the crewmen are increasing.
SPOCK: Go to Alert Baker two. Seal off main sections.
UHURA: All decks, alert system B two. Repeat, go to alert condition Baker two. Seal off all main sections. Stand by.
SPOCK: We're going to seal off, Captain, if we can minimise the spread of whatever this is.
KIRK: Continue the alert, Lieutenant.
UHURA: I can't, sir. He's cut off the alert channels. 
[Engineering]
RILEY: Lieutenant Uhura, 
[Bridge]
RILEY [OC]: You've interrupted my song. I'm sorry, but there'll be no ice cream for you tonight.
KIRK: Cut him off.
UHURA: I can't, sir. There's no way to do it.
RILEY [OC]: Attention, crew. This is Captain Riley. There will be a formal dance in the bowling alley at nineteen hundred hours tonight.
SPOCK: No way, Captain. He controls the main power panels. He can override any channel from down there. Seventeen minutes left, sir. (ship is jolted severely)
MCCOY: Sickbay to Bridge.
KIRK: Can you tie me in to the Sickbay? 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: I'm getting you, Jim. Look, can you keep this beast level? I've got Sulu tranquillized and we're running tests on him. 
[Bridge]
MCCOY [OC]: So far there's nothing unusual in his bloodstream. Body functions seem normal.
KIRK: Riley's the immediate problem, Doctor. Is there any way, anything you can do to snap him out of it? 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Negative, until I can get a little farther on these tests. 
[Bridge]
RILEY [OC]: This is Captain Riley. Crew, I have some additional orders. 
[Engineering]
RILEY: In the future, all female crew members will wear their hair loosely, about their shoulders. 
[Bridge]
RILEY [OC]: And use restraint in putting on your makeup. Women, women should not look made up. And now, crew, I will render Kathleen one more time!
KIRK: Please, not again. 
[Engineering]
RILEY: (singing) I'll take you home again, Kathleen (meanwhile, Scott is working in a Jefferies tube) I've watched them fade away and die. 
[Corridor]
SCOTT: I've set the jumpers up there. Stand by 'til I give you a signal. 
[Engineering]
RILEY: And tears bedim your loving eyes. Oh, 
[Corridor outside Engineering]
RILEY [OC]: I will take you home Kathleen.
SCOTT: Engineering to Bridge. Try your helm. You'll have enough power to keep her stabilised. Here, let's have a look at that. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Sixteen minutes left, Captain. We've stabilised, but still spiraling down.
UHURA: Emergency signal, Captain. Both decks four and five. Fights and disorders.
KIRK: Get me Sickbay.
UHURA: I have no intercom for Sickbay. He keeps switching channels on me.
KIRK: See what you can do to help Doctor McCoy. Better check Scotty first. Move him faster. He's got to get through that bulkhead. 
[Corridor]
SPOCK: Crewman, report to the lab!
MOODY: (singing) I'll take you home again Janice 
SPOCK: What's going on?
RAND: Mister Spock, I'm trying to get to the Bridge and this crewman won't let me by.
SPOCK: Crewman, stand aside.
MOODY: Oh, yes, sir. I'll take you home again, Janice
RAND: Spock! 
[Corridor outside Engineering]
SPOCK: Message from the captain.
SCOTT: Tell him I'm doing my best. If I cut through the wrong circuits
SPOCK: We have fourteen minutes left.
SCOTT: Even if we were under a full-scale attack I couldn't move any faster, not and maintain a safety factor.
SPOCK: At the rate you're proceeding, calculations show that you'll take a minute and a half more than we have left. You can't afford a safety factor. 
[Sickbay]
MCCOY: Biopsy lab. Biopsy, where's my report? Biopsy, come in! Harrison, where's my report? I'm going to the lab.
CHAPEL: Sir?
MCCOY: Yes?
CHAPEL: The tranquillizer's wearing off.
MCCOY: Oh, good. I'll need him conscious now. Continue to examine him on circuits K one and three.
CHAPEL: Of course, Doctor. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Get him out of here.
RAND: I would have gotten here sooner, sir but Crewman Moody stopped me in the hallway.
KIRK: Take the helm.
RAND: Sir?
KIRK: Take the helm!
RAND: Yes, sir.
RILEY [OC]: Kathleen. And now, crew, one more time!
KIRK: At least try cutting him off!
UHURA: Sir, if I could cut him off, don't you think I
RILEY [OC]: I'll take you home again Kathleen 
UHURA: Yes, sir. I'll keep trying.
KIRK: Sorry.
RILEY [OC]: Across the ocean wild and wide 
KIRK: Scotty.
SCOTT [OC]: Engine room.
KIRK: We've got twelve minutes left. It'll take at least two or three of them to get the engines up to power now.
SCOTT [OC]: Then we'll make it, sir, if all goes right.
KIRK: Call me when you've cut through. I want to be there. Kirk out. 
[Sickbay]
SPOCK: Nurse? Where is Doctor McCoy?
CHAPEL: He's gone to the lab.
SPOCK: Lab. Lab, respond please. Spock here. Lab!
CHAPEL: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: What is it, Nurse?
CHAPEL: Mister Spock, (takes his hand) the men from Vulcan treat their women strangely. At least, people say that, but you're part human too. I know you don't, you couldn't, hurt me, would you? I'm in love with you, Mister Spock. You, the human Mister Spock, the Vulcan Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Nurse, you should
CHAPEL: Christine, please. I see things, how honest you are. I know how you feel. You hide it, but you do have feeling. Oh, how we must hurt you, torture you.
SPOCK: I'm in control of my emotions.
CHAPEL: The others believe that. I don't. I love you. I don't know why, but I love you. I do love you just as you are. Oh, I love you.
SPOCK: I'm sorry.
UHURA [OC]: Captain is en route to Engineering, Mister Spock. Can you take the bridge? Acknowledge.
SPOCK: I am sorry.
CHAPEL: Christine.
SPOCK: Christine.
UHURA [OC]: Bridge to Sickbay. Is Mister Spock there? 
[Corridor]
UHURA [OC]: Mister Spock, would you please acknowledge? (Spock is struggling to keep his control) 
[Corridor outside Engineering]
RILEY [OC]: I will take you home Kathleen 
SCOTT: Almost ready, sir.
RILEY [OC]: To where your heart will feel no pain. When the fields are fresh and green. I'll take you to your home
SCOTT: - Ready, sir.
KIRK: (to Security) Follow me through. Put your phasers on stun. Don't fire unless he's armed. Go. 
[Engineering]
RILEY: I'll take. No dance tonight.
KIRK: Get him out of here. 
[Briefing room]
SPOCK: (close to tears) I'm in control of my emotions. Control of my emotions. I am an officer. An officer. My duty. My duty is, is. My duty is to, to. Too late. I'm sorry. To. Two, four, six. Six. Six times six. 
[Engineering]
KIRK: Scotty, we haven't got much time left.
UHURA [OC]: Bridge to Captain.
KIRK: Kirk here.
UHURA [OC]: Entering planet's outer atmosphere, sir.
SCOTT: Captain.
KIRK: What is it?
SCOTT: He's turned the engines off. Completely cold. It will take thirty minutes to regenerate them.
UHURA [OC]: Ship's outer skin is beginning to heat, Captain. Orbit plot shows we have about eight minutes left.
KIRK: Scotty!
SCOTT: I can't change the laws of physics. I've got to have thirty minutes. 
Captain's Log, supplemental. The Enterprise, spiraling down out of control. Ship's outer skin heating rapidly due to friction with planet atmosphere. 
SCOTT: Maybe twenty two, twenty three minutes.
KIRK: Scotty, we've got six.
SCOTT: Captain, you can't mix matter and antimatter cold. We'd go up in the biggest explosion since
KIRK: We can balance our engines into a controlled implosion.
SCOTT: That's only a theory. It's never been done.
KIRK: Bridge, have you found Mister Spock yet?
SCOTT: If you wanted to chance odds of ten thousand to one, maybe, assuming we had a row of computers working weeks on the right formula.
UHURA: Mister Spock is not on the Bridge, Captain. 
[Bridge]
SULU: (waking up screaming) I was on the Bridge. Hey Doc, what am I doing here?
MCCOY: McCoy to Bio. We've isolated it. Start preparing serum.
HARRISON [OC]: What, Doctor?
MCCOY: It's water. Somehow on this planet, water's changed to a complex chain of molecules.
HARRISON [OC]: What's that, Doctor?
MCCOY: That's how we missed it. It passed from man to man through perspiration. Once in the bloodstream, it acts like alcohol, depresses the centres of judgment, self-control. Now get someone to the lab. Tell them the serum works, and start preparing more.
SULU: Doc, will you let me out of here? I'm all right.
MCCOY: Release him. 
[Briefing room]
SCOTT [OC]: Engineers, man your stations. Engine rooms, report. Cycling station, report. This will be an emergency restart of engines.
KIRK: Where have you been? What happened?
SPOCK: My mother. I could never tell her I loved her.
KIRK: We've got four minutes, maybe five.
SPOCK: An Earth woman, living on a planet where love, emotion, is bad taste.
KIRK: We've got to risk a full-power start. The engines were shut off. No time to regenerate them. Do you hear me? We've got to risk a full-power start!
SPOCK: I respected my father, our customs. I was ashamed of my Earth blood. (Kirk slaps him) Jim, when I feel friendship for you, I'm ashamed.
KIRK: (hitting him repeatedly) You've got to hear me! We need a formula. We've got to risk implosion!
SPOCK: t's never been done! Understand, Jim. I've spent a whole lifetime learning to hide my feelings. (finally hits Kirk back)
KIRK: We've got to risk implosion. It's our only chance.
SPOCK: It's never been done.
KIRK: Don't tell me that again, Science Officer! It's a theory. It's possible. We may go up into the biggest ball of fire since the last sun in these parts exploded, but we've got to take that one in ten thousand chance!
UHURA [OC]: Bridge to Captain. Engineer asked, did you find
KIRK: Yes, I found Mister Spock! I'm talking to Mister Spock, do you understand?
UHURA: Yes, sir. Three and a half minutes left, Captain.
KIRK: I've got it, the disease. Love. You're better off without it, and I'm better off without mine. This vessel, I give, she takes. She won't permit me my life. I've got to live hers.
SPOCK: Jim.
KIRK: I have a beautiful yeoman. Have you noticed her, Mister Spock? You're allowed to notice her. The Captain's not permitted
SPOCK: Jim, there is an intermix formula.
KIRK: Now I know why it's called she.
SPOCK: It's never been tested. It's a theoretical relationship between time and antimatter.
KIRK: Flesh woman to touch, to hold. A beach to walk on. A few days, no braid on my shoulder.
SCOTT: Captain.
KIRK: Scotty, help.
SPOCK: Stand by to intermix. I'll call the formulae in from the Bridge.
UHURA [OC]: Entering upper stratosphere, Captain. Skin temperature now twenty one hundred seventy degrees.
KIRK: I've got to hang on. Tell them. Clear the corridors, the turbo lift. Hurry. (Scott and Spock leave) Never lose you. Never. 
[Turbolift]
KIRK: Bridge. 
[Bridge]
(McCoy gives Kirk a hypo as he leaves the turbolift) 
KIRK: Engine room. We're set. Hyperbolic course.
BRENT: Direction, sir?
KIRK: Direction. Direction. It doesn't matter. The way we came.
SULU: Course laid in, sir. 
[Engineering]
SPOCK: Fuel temperature.
SCOTT: Level. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: (gazing at Janice) No beach to walk on.
RAND: Sir? 
[Engineering]
SPOCK: Raise antimatter eight and forty degrees.
SCOTT: That'll take four minutes.
SPOCK: We haven't the time. We'll have to risk it. Bridge, we're ready. 
[Bridge]
KIRK: Engage. 
SPOCK: Are you all right, Jim?
KIRK: Are you? (Spock nods)
MCCOY: We found a cure. We're over that part of it. 
SPOCK: Obviously, we were successful. The engines imploded.
SULU: Captain, my velocity gauge is off the scale.
SPOCK: Engine power went off the scale as well. We're now travelling faster than is possible for normal space.
KIRK: Checked elapsed time, Mister Sulu.
SULU: My chronometer's running backwards, sir.
KIRK: Time warp. We're going backward in time. Helm, begin reversing power. Slowly.
SULU: Helm answering, sir. Power reversing.
SPOCK: We're back to normal time, Captain.
KIRK: Engines ahead. Warp one.
SULU: Warp one, sir.
KIRK: Mister Spock.
SPOCK: Yes, sir.
KIRK: The time warp. What did it do to us?
SPOCK: We've regressed in time seventy one hours. It is now three days ago, Captain. We have three days to live over again. 
KIRK: Not those last three days.
SPOCK: This does open some intriguing prospects, Captain. Since the formula worked, we can go back in time, to any planet, any era.
KIRK: We may risk it someday, Mister Spock. Resume course to our next destination, Mister Sulu.
SULU: Course laid in, sir.
KIRK: Steady as she goes. 

