Episode Number: 45
The Star Trek Transcripts - A Private Little War
A Private Little War
Stardate: 4211.4 
Original Airdate: 2 Feb, 1968
[Planet surface]
(Doctor McCoy is sampling the local vegetation when his communicator beeps.) 
MCCOY: Yes, Jim. 
KIRK [OC]: How much longer, McCoy? 
MCCOY: Oh, about another thirty minutes. I've come across some most interesting organic compounds. Hey, Starfleet was right. 
[Rocky outcrop]
(Kirk is also on the planet.) 
MCCOY [OC]: These roots and soil cultures can be a medical treasure house. Any problems there? 
KIRK: No sign of the inhabitants so far. Kirk out. 
SPOCK: Large prints. The ape-like carnivore in the reports? 
KIRK: Yes, the mugato. No problem, though. Those prints are several days old. They seldom stay in one place. 
SPOCK: Aside from that, you say it's a Garden of Eden? 
KIRK: Or so it seemed to the brash young Lieutenant Kirk on his first planet survey. 
SPOCK: Class M in all respects. Quite Earth-like. 
KIRK: Except these people stayed in their Garden of Eden. Bows and arrows for hunting, but absolutely no fighting among themselves. Remarkably peaceful and tranquil. 
VOICE [OC]: Ho! Take cover here! 
(Kirk and Spock dash off to investigate, and see three dark-haired locals laying an ambush, armed with long-barreled guns.) 
SPOCK: Bows and arrows, Captain? 
KIRK: Villagers with flintlocks? That's impossible. They hadn't progressed nearly that far. 
SPOCK: Captain, look. 
(A group of blond hunters is approaching. They do have bows and arrows.) 
KIRK: One of those men walking into ambush is Tyree. The friend I lived with here. (He draws his phaser.) 
SPOCK: Captain, use of our phasers is expressly forbidden. 
(So instead Kirk throws a rock which startles a villager into firing his weapon early.) 
TYREE: Villagers! 
(There's a chase, hunters after the villagers, and the villagers pursuing Kirk and Spock. A shot is fired, which McCoy hears.) 
[Planet surface]
MCCOY: Enterprise, alert! Stand by to beam up landing party. 
(Kirk and Spock come running, then Spock gets shot in the back.) 
KIRK: Spock? Your phaser. (it is missing, so Kirk prepares to use his to defend his friend.) 
SPOCK: No, Captain. I can travel. 
(They join McCoy.) 
KIRK: Beam us up, quickly. 
MCCOY: Now, Scotty. Have medics stand by. 
(They beam out just before the villagers arrive.) 
[Transporter room]
SCOTT: What happened, Captain? 
KIRK: Lead projectile. Primitive firearm. 
M'BENGA: (an African doctor, to Nurse Chapel) Vitalizer B.;
MCCOY: Pressure packet. Lucky his heart's where his liver should be, or he'd be dead now. 
M'BENGA: Not good, sir. 
MCCOY: Coranalin. 
KIRK: Bones, can you save him? 
UHURA [OC]: All decks, Red Alert! Battle stations, battle stations! Go to Red Alert! 
KIRK: Kirk here. 
UHURA [OC]: Uhura, sir. We have a Klingon vessel on our screen. 
KIRK: On my way. Scotty. Bones? 
MCCOY: I don't know yet, Jim. 
[Bridge]
CHEKOV: Captain, we're holding the planet between us and the Klingons. I don't think they've spotted us. 
UHURA: Make that definite, sir. They're sending a routine message to their home base with no mention of us. 
KIRK: Good. Go to Yellow Alert. 
UHURA: Yellow Alert. All stations go to Yellow Alert. 
KIRK: Do you think you can keep us out of their sight, Chekov? 
CHEKOV: I can try, Captain. 
UHURA: Message to Starbase, sir? 
KIRK: No point in giving ourselves away, Lieutenant. Not until we find out what's going on. 
SCOTT: We can hide for a while, sir, but we may have to go out of orbit to keep it up for long. 
KIRK: Kirk to Sickbay. 
MCCOY [OC]: McCoy here. I'll call you soon as I know anything. Sickbay out. 
KIRK: So, they've broken the treaty. 
SCOTT: Not necessarily, Captain. They have as much right to scientific missions here as we have. 
KIRK: Research is not the Klingon way. 
SCOTT: True, but since this is a hands-off planet, how are you going to prove they're doing otherwise? 
KIRK: When I left there thirteen years ago, those villagers had barely learned to forge iron. Spock was shot with a flintlock. How many centuries between those two developments? 
UHURA: On Earth, about twelve, sir. 
SCOTT: On the other hand, a flintlock would be the first firearm the inhabitants would normally develop. 
KIRK: Yes, I'm aware of that, Mister Scott.;
CHEKOV: And, sir, the fact Earth took twelve centuries doesn't mean they had to. 
UHURA: We've seen different development at rates on different planets. 
SCOTT: And were the Klingons behind it, why didn't they give them breechloaders? 
CHEKOV: Or machine guns? 
UHURA: Or old-style hand lasers? 
KIRK: I did not invite a debate. I'm sorry. I'm worried about Spock and concerned about what's happened to something I once knew down there. You have the conn, Scotty. I'll be in Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]
M'BENGA: We've no replacements for the damaged organs, sir. If he's going to live, his Vulcan physiology will have to do it for him. 
MCCOY: Agreed. Sterilite off. 
CHAPEL: Yes, sir. 
MCCOY: He'll live or die now, Jim. I don't know which. Doctor M'Benga interned on a Vulcan ward. He couldn't be in better hands. 
KIRK: Then you and I are transporting down. 
MCCOY: I can't leave Spock at this time. 
KIRK: You just indicated you could. There are Klingons here. If their mission is a legitimate research interest in the planet's organic potential, then you're the one man who can tell me. 
MCCOY: And if that's not it? 
KIRK: Then I need help. Advice I can trust as much as Spock's. 
MCCOY: I appreciate the compliment, Jim, but 
KIRK: Bones, I'm as worried about Spock as you are, but if the Klingons are breaking the treaty it could be interstellar war. Kirk to Bridge. 
SCOTT [OC]: Bridge, Scott here. 
KIRK: McCoy and I are transporting back down. Inform ship's stores that we'll need native costumes. 
[Bridge]
SCOTT: Captain, we may have to break out of orbit any minute to keep out of their sight. We'd be out of communicator range with you. 
[Sickbay]
KIRK: I understand. We'll arrange a rendezvous schedule. Kirk out. 
Captain's log, stardate 4211.4. Keeping our presence here secret is an enormous tactical advantage, therefore I cannot risk contact with Starfleet Command. I must take action on my own judgment. I've elected to violate orders and make contact with planet inhabitants. 
[Planet surface]
(McCoy and Kirk are dressed in the leathers of hill people.) 
KIRK: Perfect. Tyree's camp's a quarter of a mile away. 
MCCOY: Want to think about it again, Jim? Starfleet's orders about this planet state no interference with 
KIRK: No interference with normal social development. I'm not only aware of it, it was my survey thirteen years ago that recommended it. 
MCCOY: I read it. Inhabitants superior in many ways to humans. Left alone, they undoubtedly someday will develop a remarkably advanced and peaceful culture. 
KIRK: Indeed. And I intend to see that they have that chance. You coming with me? 
MCCOY: Do I have a choice? 
(So they make their way down the slope, and Kirk gets pounced on by a big white ape with a large horn on it's head and spines down it's back. It easily throws off McCoy as it concentrates on it's first victim, biting him, Throwing rocks makes it stand up, then McCoy vaporizes it with his phaser.) 
KIRK: (shaking) Contact ship. Took full poison. Fangs. 
MCCOY: Enterprise, McCoy. Emergency. Come in. Enterprise, come in. McCoy! Emergency! 
KIRK: They left. Out of orbit. 
MCCOY: (giving an injection) Jim, there is no antitoxin for this poison. I can only keep you alive a few hours with this. 
KIRK: Tyree. Some of his men. Cure. 
(Three men are standing in front of them.) 
MCCOY: Are you hill people? Do you know a hunter named Tyree? A mugato attacked him. He's James Kirk. He's a friend of Tyree's. Blast it! Do something! He's dying! 
(Kirk passes out.) 
{Tyree's camp]
YUTAN: Take him to the cave. I bring Tyree. 
[Cave]
MCCOY [OC]: Medical log, stardate 4211.8. Kirk is right about the people here. Despite their fear and our strangeness, they're compassionate and gentle. I've learned the hunter Tyree is now their leader. He is expected to return shortly with his wife, who they say knows how to cure this poison. My problem. The captain is in deep shock. I must keep him warm and alive until then. 
(McCoy wraps plenty of furs around Kirk.) 
MCCOY: You and your Garden of Eden. 
[Hillside]
(A man and a dark-haired woman come out of hiding after two armed villagers pass.) 
NONA: We must obtain the same firesticks, husband. You could be killing them instead. We could take their houses, their goods. 
TYREE: Nona, enough. In time the villagers will return to their ways of friendship. 
NONA: In time? They kill your people! I am a Kahn-ut-tu woman. In all this land, how many are there? Men seek us because through us they become great leaders. 
TYREE: I took you because you cast a spell upon me. 
NONA: And I have spells that help me keep you. Remember this leaf? The night we camped by the water? 
TYREE: The night of madness. 
NONA: Oh, Tyree, did you really hate that madness? 
(She rubs the leaf down his arm, scratching him and leaving pieces attached to his skin.) 
TYREE: No, Nona. No! It brought up evil beasts from my soul. 
NONA: Only one lovely beast, Tyree, my huge, angry man. 
(They kiss passionately.) 
YUTAN: Forgive me.;
NONA: What is it? 
YUTAN: There are strangers in our camp. One has taken the mugato bite. He dies. 
NONA: Strangers? 
YUTAN: It is said the dying one is a friend of Tyree, from long ago. 
NONA: That one. Bring him when his head clears. 
[Cave]
(Kirk is shivering under his furs, so McCoy uses his phaser to heat a rock.) 
[Tyree's camp]
NONA: The stranger, where is he? 
(She is pointed to the cave.) 
[Cave]
(McCoy is heating another couple of rocks when she arrives. The sight of such a powerful weapon stops her from going in.) 
[Tyree's camp]
(Tyree arrives, running.) 
TYREE: Nona, where's Kirk? The cave? 
NONA: Tyree, you wish me to save him? 
TYREE: You must. He is the one I told you of. The friend of my younger days. 
NONA: My remedies require I know what kind of man he is. All that is known of him. 
TYREE: I gave him my promise of silence. He was made my brother. 
NONA: And I am your wife, his sister. I promise silence also. 
TYREE: Nona 
NONA: Quickly! Or he dies. 
[Sickbay]
(The indicators over Spock's bed are very low. Chapel is holding his hand, but puts it down quickly when the door opens.) 
M'BENGA: Don't let these low panel readings bother you. I've seen this before in Vulcans. It's their way of concentrating all their strength, blood, and antibodies onto the injured organs. A form of self-induced hypnosis. 
CHAPEL: You mean he's conscious? 
M'BENGA: Well, in a sense. He knows we're here and what we're saying, but he can't afford to take his mind from the tissue he's fighting to heal. I suppose he even knows you were holding his hand. (leaves) 
CHAPEL: A good nurse always treats her patients that way. It proves she's interested. 
[Cave]
TYREE: I am Tyree. 
NONA: And I'm Tyree's woman. 
TYREE: It is Kirk. She will cure him. 
(Nona takes a strange object out of her bag. It is moving slightly.) 
MCCOY: What's that? 
NONA: A mahko root. 
MCCOY: A plant? It moves. 
NONA: For those who know where to find it, how to use it, how to pick it. 
(She holds out her hand, and Tyree cuts it with his knife. Then she starts writhing for a few moments before putting the mahko root onto Kirk's wound and holding it there with her bleeding hand.) 
NONA: Take this of my soul. This of my soul. Thine own. Into thine. Deeply. Together. Your pain is mine. All mine. Your soul and mine, together! Return. It is past. Return. Return! 
(Tyree beats a drum then she collapses, exhausted, across Kirk's bare chest. The root is shriveled. Kirk wakes up.) 
KIRK: Bones. I had the strangest dream. 
MCCOY: How do you feel, Jim? 
KIRK: Tired. Very tired. You did a fine job, Bones. I think I'll sleep. 
(McCoy removes the root. The would has healed completely.)
MCCOY: I want to thank you for saving his life. (Nona's hand is healed too) I would like to learn more about this. 
NONA: Our blood has passed through the mahko root together. Our souls have been together. He is mine now. 
TYREE: She must sleep also. 
MCCOY: He is hers? 
TYREE: When a man and woman are joined in this manner, he can refuse her no wish. But it is only legend. 
(Later, McCoy wakes to find Jim is out of bed. He finds him by Nona's bed.) 
MCCOY: Jim. 
KIRK: Bones. What are you doing here? (their voices wake Tyree) Tyree. My old friend. 
TYREE: Yes, James! James, it's good to see you. 
KIRK: What am I doing here? A mugato bite! I remember. I told him to take me to Tyree's camp. I knew you'd find a kahn-ut-tu to cure me. The kahn-ut-tu is the local witch people here. They've studied (Nona gets up and stands in front of him) They've studied the roots and the herbs. 
NONA: I am a kahn-ut-tu, Captain. I cured you. 
TYREE: My wife, Nona. 
KIRK: Yes, of course. I should've guessed. Congratulations. Tyree, we must talk now. The villagers, their new weapons. I want to hear all about that. We must make plans. 
NONA: Good. It is past time to plan. 
TYREE: Much has happened since you left, James. Come, we'll speak of it. 
NONA: And of things to be done. 
TYREE: Come. (the men leave, but he stops Nona from following.) We will speak of it. 
[Sickbay]
(The markers on the indicator board above Spock's head are going up and down like crazy.) 
CHAPEL: The readings are beginning to fluctuate. 
M'BENGA: Just as they should. This is Doctor M'Benga. There will be someone with you constantly now. When the time comes, I'll be called. (to Chapel) As soon as he shows any signs of consciousness, call me immediately. 
CHAPEL: Yes, Doctor. 
M'BENGA: After you've called me, if he speaks, do whatever he says. 
CHAPEL: Do whatever he says? 
M'BENGA: Yes. That's clear enough, isn't it? 
[Cave]
TYREE: The firesticks first appeared nearly a year ago. Since that time, many of my people have died. 
KIRK: You say they make the firesticks themselves? How can you be sure? 
TYREE: I've looked into their village. I have seen it being done. 
MCCOY: Have you seen any strangers among the villagers? 
TYREE: Strangers? No. 
KIRK: Can you take us to their village while it's still dark? 
TYREE: Yes, but the mugatos travel at night also. You killed one. Its mate will not be far. 
KIRK: (showing his phaser) You've seen how these work. 
NONA: I've seen them also, and I know you have many ways to make your friend Tyree a man of great importance. 
MCCOY: Many ways? What else does she know about us? 
NONA: Tyree has told me much of you. Do not blame him. It was the price for saving your life. 
KIRK: We're simply strangers from 
NONA: From one of the lights in the sky, and you have ways as far above firesticks as the sky above our world. 
TYREE: You will not speak of this to others. 
NONA: I will not if I am made to understand. Teach me. There's an old custom among my people. When a woman saves a man's life, he is grateful. 
KIRK: I am grateful. 
MCCOY: A splendid custom if not carried to extremes. 
KIRK: We once were as you are, Spears, arrows. There came a time when our weapons grew faster than our wisdom, and we almost destroyed ourselves. We learned from this to make a rule during all our travels, Never to cause the same to happen to other worlds. Just as a man must grow in his own way and in his own time. 
NONA: Some men never grow. 
KIRK: Perhaps not as fast or in the way another thinks he should. But we're wise enough to know that we are wise enough not to interfere with the way of a man or another world. 
NONA: You must let the villagers destroy us? You will not help your friend and brother kill them instead? 
TYREE: No! I said I will not kill! 
NONA: We must fight or die! Is dying better? You would let him die when you have weapons to make him powerful and safe? Then he has the wrong friends. And I have the wrong husband. (leaves) 
TYREE: You will help in ways she does not understand. I have faith in our friendship, James. Come, before we lose the darkness. (leaves) 
MCCOY: What's bothering you, Jim? If we find the Klingons have helped the villagers, there's certainly something we can do. 
KIRK: That's what's bothering me. The something we may have to do. 
[Village]
(Smooth walled buildings with tiled roofs, shrubs in terracotta jars. An armed guard patrols in front of one with a verandah.) 
TYREE: The guard. We must wait. 
KIRK: Tyree, supposing you had to fight? What then? 
MCCOY: Jim, this man believes in the same thing we believe in. That killing is stupid and useless. 
KIRK: Tyree? 
TYREE: Now. Come. 
(Kirk sneaks around behind the guard and puts a sleeper hold on him.) 
KIRK: The gun. Ammunition. Doctor. 
(McCoy and Kirk run off while Tyree picks up the flintlock.) 
[Building]
(A Klingon is sitting behind a simple wooden table.) 
KRELL: You are late, my friend Apella. 
APELLA: A quarrel by my people. A division of some skins and a hill woman taken this morning. It's hard to divide one woman. 
KRELL: Give her to the man who killed the most of her people. The others will see the profit in bravery. I'll make a Klingon of you yet. 
(He hands over another flintlock.) 
Your next improvement. Notice what we've done to the striker. See how it holds the priming powder more securely? Fewer misfires. When I return, we will give you other improvements. A rifled barrel. 
APELLA: What? 
KRELL: A way to shoot further and straighter. 
[Village]
MCCOY: Jim. Coal for forge, sulphur for gun powder. 
KIRK: Let's take a look inside. 
[Forge]
(A big bellows runs straight into the base of the fire.) 
KIRK: Well, here's your forge. People's exhibit number one. A chrome steel drill point. 
MCCOY: (scanning) This pig iron is almost carbon-free. That village furnace certainly didn't produce it. People's exhibit number two. Cold-rolled gun barrel rod fashioned to look homemade. You were right about the Klingons, Jim. KIRK: Make recorder and scanner tapes of everything. 
MCCOY: Right. It's a pity we can't include a live Klingon. That'd just about wrap it 
(He is interrupted by voices from outside. They hide.) 
APELLA [OC]: Is it difficult to cut grooves into the barrels? 
KRELL [OC]: It's quite simple. I'll show you. 
(Apella and Krell enter the forge.) 
APELLA: I thought my people would grow tired of killing. But you were right. They see that it is easier than trading and it has pleasures. I feel it myself. Like the hunt, but with richer rewards. 
KRELL: You will be rich one day, Apella, beyond your dreams. The leader of a whole world. A governor in the Klingon Empire. 
(Then McCoy's scanner whistles. So Kirk jumps the Klingon while McCoy hits Apella with the steel rod he took.) 
KIRK: Bones! 
(They open the door, but there are two more armed villagers outside. Nevertheless, they knock them out and get away.) 
[Village]
KRELL [OC]: Guards! Intruders!
KIRK: (to Tyree) Move! Fast! 
(Shots are fired as the three run for their lives out of the village.) 
[Sickbay]
(Spock starts gasping for air.) 
SPOCK: Nurse. 
CHAPEL: Yes? 
SPOCK: Hit me. The pain will help me to consciousness. Hit me.
CHAPEL: Hit you? No! I can't 
SPOCK: Blast you, strike me! If I don't regain consciousness soon, it may be too late. Hit me. (she slaps his face) Harder! 
(She does, with tears in her eyes.) 
SPOCK: Again. Continue. The pain will help me to consciousness. 
SCOTT: (running in and dragging her away) What are you doing, woman? 
CHAPEL: Leave me alone! 
SCOTT: Have you gone daft? 
CHAPEL: Mister Spock needs me! Let go! 
(M'Benga rushes in and helps Spock to sit up before giving him some pretty vicious hits across the face. Scott stares, astonished. Finally Spock grabs M'Benga's arm.) 
SPOCK: That will be quite enough. Thank you, doctor.;
M'BENGA: Please, release her. 
SCOTT: What's this all about? 
SPOCK: She was doing as I requested, Mister Scott. A Vulcan form of self-healing. 
M'BENGA: As you saw, they must wait until the last possible moment then fight their way back to consciousness. 
CHAPEL: Here, let me help you, Mister Spock. 
SPOCK: Thank you, nurse. I'm quite fully recovered. 
CHAPEL: Yes, I see you are. 
[Tyree's camp]
(Just slightly away from the tents, Kirk is giving a rifle shooting lesson.) 
KIRK: Men, this is the pan. This is the hammer. The hammer striking the pan causes a spark, ignites the powder, and fires the flintlock. Now aim it as I showed you. Hold your breath and squeeze the trigger gently. (Tyree shoots the clay pot target) Well done. Very, very, very good. 
MCCOY: Jim, I want to talk to you. 
KIRK: Not here, Bones. In the cave. Yutan, your turn. 
[Cave]
MCCOY: Do I have to say it? It's not bad enough there's one serpent in Eden teaching one side about gun powder. You want to make sure they all know about it! 
KIRK: Exactly. Each side receives the same knowledge and the same type of firearm. 
MCCOY: Have you gone out of your mind? Yes, maybe you have. Tyree's wife, she said there was something in that root. She said now you can refuse her nothing. 
KIRK: Superstition. 
MCCOY: Is it a coincidence this is exactly what she wants? 
KIRK: Is it? She wants superior weapons. That's the one thing neither side can have. Bones. Bones, the normal development of this planet was the status quo between the hill people and the villagers. The Klingons changed that with the flintlocks. If this planet is to develop the way it should, we must equalize both sides again. 
MCCOY: Jim, that means you're condemning this whole planet to a war that may never end. It could go on for year after year, massacre after massacre. 
KIRK: All right, Doctor! All right. Say I'm wrong. Say I'm drugged. Say the woman drugged me. What is your sober, sensible solution to all this? 
MCCOY: I don't have a solution. But furnishing them firearms is certainly not the answer. 
KIRK: Bones, do you remember the twentieth century brush wars on the Asian continent? Two giant powers involved, much like the Klingons and ourselves. Neither side felt could pull out. 
MCCOY: Yes, I remember. It went on bloody year after bloody year. 
KIRK: What would you have suggested, that one side arm its friends with an overpowering weapon? Mankind would never have lived to travel space if they had. No. The only solution is what happened back then. Balance of power. 
MCCOY: And if the Klingons give their side even more? 
KIRK: Then we arm our side with exactly that much more. A balance of power. The trickiest, most difficult, dirtiest game of them all, but the only one that preserves both sides. 
MCCOY: And what about your friend Tyree? Will he understand this balance of power? 
KIRK: No. Probably not. But I'm going to have to try and make him understand. I never had a more difficult task. 
MCCOY: Well, Jim, here's another morsel of agony for you. Since Tyree won't fight, he will be one of the first to die. 
KIRK: Well, war isn't a good life, but it's life. His wife is the only way to reach him. If I tell her we're going to supply guns, maybe she'll convince him. 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: Position, Mister Scott? 
SCOTT: Entering distant orbit, sir. Approaching rendezvous time. 
SPOCK: The Klingons? 
CHEKOV: They haven't spotted us yet, sir. Looks like they're beaming someone aboard. 
SPOCK: Stand by to signal the captain. 
UHURA: Aye, sir. 
[Countryside]
(Kirk finds Nona near a stream which is running over a rock. She has been bathing. KIRK: Nona. Pardon me. 
NONA: You are here because I wished you here. 
KIRK: Oh? I thought it was my idea. 
NONA: Yes. They always believe they come of free will. Tyree thought the same when I cast my first spell on him. 
KIRK: Nona 
NONA: Can you smell this fragrance? Some find it pleasing. 
(It is the same planet that she used on Tyree.) 
KIRK: I'd like to talk to you. 
NONA: Again. Some find it soothing. Yes. 
KIRK: I would like 
NONA: Happy. Yes. You feel good. 
(Tyree overhears her, and he is carrying a gun.) 
KIRK: I feel dizzy. Yes, you are lovely. You're beautiful. 
(Tyree takes aim.) 
NONA: Kiss me. 
(Kirk gives in, but Tyree cannot bring himself to squeeze the trigger. He throws the gun down in disgust and runs. Nona and Kirk are interrupted by the shriek of a mugato. Kirk is so besotted that Nona has difficulty getting out of his embrace and trying to escape. Eventually Kirk thinks to draw his phaser and kill the attacking creature. She decides to hit him over the head to get the phaser for herself.) 
[Tyree's camp]
(Tyree returns.) 
MCCOY: Where's Captain Kirk? Tyree, the firestick. Where is it? 
TYREE: There! I left it there. 
MCCOY: That's a fine thing to leave lying around. Show us where it is. 
[Countryside]
(Nona has just left when McCoy, Tyree and Yutan arrive. Yutan picks up the rifle.) 
TYREE: I do not want it. 
MCCOY: Jim? Jim. Who hit you? 
KIRK: Nona. 
[Hillside]
(Nona greets a band of villagers.) 
NONA: I bring you victory for Apella! 
) MAN 1: Tyree's woman. 
MAN 2: She's a Kahn-ut-tu. 
MAN 1: We won't trust this division to Apella. 
NONA: Take me to him. He will have the strength to use this new weapon. 
(Villager number one grabs Nona, and she slaps him off.) 
NONA: Touch me again, and this small box will kill you. 
(They don't believe her, and all four men struggle with her. 
[Countryside]
(McCoy is about to give Kirk an injection to go with the headache pills.) 
KIRK: No, no. I'm all right. My phaser. She took it. 
[Hillside]
NONA: This weapon I bring you is far greater than your firesticks. 
(Still, all the men want is to have their wicked way with her, and she screams. Kirk, Tyree and McCoy come running over the brow.) 
TYREE: Nona! 
MAN 4: Hill people! 
MAN 1: It's a trap. The woman's tricked us. 
(He stabs her. Another man shoots McCoy in the arm. Yutan fires back, then there is a good old-fashioned hand-to-hand struggle. Tyree smashes one man's head repeatedly with a large rock, until Kirk stops him. He goes to his wife.) 
MCCOY: She's dead. 
(Tyree picks up a rifle.) 
TYREE: I want more of these, Kirk. Many more! Yutan, two of those who killed my wife have escaped. Track them down. I will kill them. 
(McCoy finds the phaser in the dirt nearby.) 
MCCOY: Here. 
KIRK: Tomorrow in the palm of her hands. 
MCCOY: Well, you got what you wanted. 
KIRK: Not what I wanted, Bones. What had to be. (McCoy hands him a communicator from his bag) Kirk here. 
SPOCK [OC] Spock, Captain. I trust all has gone well. 
MCCOY: Spock, are you alive? 
[Bridge]
SPOCK: An illogical question, Doctor, since obviously you are hearing my voice. 
[Hillside]
MCCOY: Well, I don't know why I was worried. You can't kill a computer. 
KIRK: Spock, ask Scotty how long it would take him to reproduce a hundred flintlocks. 
[Bridge]
SCOTT: (losing his grin) I didn't get that exactly, Captain. A hundred what? 
[Hillside]
KIRK: A hundred serpents. Serpents for the Garden of Eden. We're very tired, Mister Spock. Beam us up home. 

