Episode Number: 78
The Enterprise Transcripts - Storm Front part two
Storm Front, part two
Original Airdate: 15 Oct, 2004
ARCHER [OC]: Previously, on Enterprise
TUCKER 
[Situation room]
: We just pulled three fifty calibre bullets from the shuttlepod hull. We are two hundred years in the past. 
OFFICER 
[Roadside ambush]
: Insurgents! 
(Archer's escape from the Nazi's.) 
VOSK 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
: Your colleague has managed to evade us. I assure you, whatever I want to know, you'll tell me. 
ARCHER 
[Alicia's apartment]
: Where are we? 
ALICIA: We in Brooklyn. 
VOSK 
[Nazi HQ - Vosk's office]
: The weapons I'm preparing will make you immune from any counterattack anywhere in the world. 
SAL 
[Alicia's Apartment]
: The Germans were offering ten thousand dollars for information leading to your capture. Why? 
ARCHER: All I can tell you is we're on the same side. 
CARMINE 
[Alleyway]
: (on seeing his first non-human) Holy mother of 
GHRATH: We're trapped. The Germans are helping us construct a conduit so we can find our way home. 
DANIELS 
[Sickbay]
: I've sent you to this point because it's here that Vosk can be stopped. If you succeed, the timeline will be restored. 
ARCHER: One of these people told me they were building a conduit. 
DANIELS: Find it. Destroy it. He must not succeed. Stop him.
ARCHER [OC]: And now, the conclusion.
NEWSREEL: News On Parade! America and Germany together in the fight for freedom. In his first visit to the home of the Brave, the German chancellor received a warm welcome from the Big Apple! He greeted enthusiastic crowds in Times Square and took in the view from the top of the Empire State Building. Watch that first step! Later, the Fuhrer paid a call to Lady Liberty, where he was given the keys to the city! The whirlwind tour was capped off by a four-hour speech to city leaders, where the Fuhrer outlined his vision for a prosperous alliance between Germany and America. Vowing to root out the parasitic elements that have crippled our economy since 1929 and to liberate the masses from the grip of financial profiteers, Together, we will put Americans back to work. Two great nations marching side by side toward a bold future! 
(The Nazi flag is above the US one on the flagpole.) 
[Nazi HQ - Vosk's office]
GENERAL: Our intelligence sources are convinced that the American counterattack will be launched within days. It's no longer a rumour. It's fact. 
VOSK: I assume you're taking the necessary steps. 
(He sees the document in the General's hands.) 
VOSK: What is that? 
GENERAL: An intelligence briefing. According to this, your squadron performed flawlessly in recent field tests. 
VOSK: You've been spying on us. 
GENERAL: We're protecting our interests. 
VOSK: I suppose I would've done the same. Tell your Fuhrer he'll receive the squadron when I deem it ready for deployment. 
GENERAL: This says it is ready for deployment. 
VOSK: With all due respect, your intelligence is flawed. 
GENERAL: We are tired of your stalling! 
VOSK: And I am tired of your threats. 
GENERAL: You and your men have taken an oath to defend Germany! 
VOSK: We take that oath seriously. 
GENERAL: Do you? 
VOSK: You've made certain promises to me as well. 
GENERAL: We've provided everything you've asked for. You'll not receive a single truckload of additional supplies till you fulfill your part of the agreement. 
VOSK: General, you might consider what would happen if my weapons were to fall into the hands of the Allies. Imagine Berlin obliterated by plasma cannons. 
GENERAL: I should have you arrested for treason. 
VOSK: You are a fool. You think we're equals because I allow you to participate in this struggle. You fight to control nations. We dominate entire worlds. We extend our will across time. If your race were to endure for a million years, you couldn't begin to approach what we've accomplished. The next time you feel the urge to threaten me, remember this: I can erase you from history as if you never existed. 
[Crew quarters]
(Alicia looking at a photograph in a frame.) 
ALICIA: She was around my age. 
ARCHER: Twenty six. 
ALICIA: Ensign O'Malley. How'd she die? 
ARCHER: In a battle with a hostile species. 
ALICIA: There's still war in the future? 
ARCHER: On Earth, between human beings, war has been eliminated. But the galaxy's a big place, with thousands of species. Not all of them have the same values we have. 
ALICIA: Spaceships. People from other planets. People from the future? It's all a little too much for Alicia Travers from Bensonhurst. Besides, I'm afraid of heights. 
ARCHER: I can send you anywhere in the world. To a place that isn't occupied by the Germans. 
(Alicia looks down on Earth.) 
ALICIA: Seem to be fewer and fewer of those places every day. I want to go home, to my neighbourhood. There are a lot of people in trouble down there, and I'm not going to just turn my back on them. But you knew I was going to say that, didn't you? 
ARCHER: I had a feeling. Two of my men are missing. They could be hiding out, they might've been taken prisoner. They could be dead. 
ALICIA: We've got eyes on every street corner. I can, I can put a word out. Archer, with this ship, with all this power, you can help us. You can help us stop those bastards. 
ARCHER: I know. 
ALICIA: Then do it. Start with Berlin. Wipe that damn place off the map, and don't stop until you kill every last one of them, because what they 
ARCHER: We're going to stop them. That's one of the reasons we're here. But we're going to do it another way. 
ALICIA: Okay. I guess you know what you're doing. Are you going to start by sending me down with that dissolver thing? 
ARCHER: Shuttlepods are damaged. The transporter is all we have. 
ALICIA: Archer, you promised me I wouldn't have to go through that again. 
ARCHER: I'm going to have to break that promise. 
ALICIA: Okay. How does that thing work, anyway? On second thought, I'd rather not know. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: Begin the test sequence. 
KRAUL: Based on the interrogations, I believe the prisoners are not temporal agents. 
VOSK: I've arrived at the same conclusion. Their technology suggests they're from a period too early for time travel. 
KRAUL: They don't even seem to know how they got to this century. It's curious. 
VOSK: Still, I refuse to believe their presence here is an accident. 
(The conduit activates, but it isn't stable and goes bang.) 
SCIENTIST: There's a power surge in one of the power modules. 
VOSK: Run a complete systems scan. Isolate the fault. Our time is running out. The Germans are becoming impatient. 
KRAUL: Why not give them what they want? 
VOSK: I don't trust these people. I never have. I'm not about to furnish them with weapons that could be used against us. Return the prisoners to their holding cell. See that they get medical attention. Go. 
[Cell]
(Tucker and Travis are dropped onto the floor by the guards.) 
VOSK: Bring the doctor immediately. 
(The Germans clear the room, Tucker rolls over and thinks he sees a figure crawling across the ceiling and then falling onto him.) 
[Ready room]
REED: I think I've pinpointed where the timeline changed. Someone assassinated Lenin in 1916. 
ARCHER: Who took his place? 
REED: No one. So without Lenin, the Bolsheviks never gained power. Russia didn't become Communist, and Germany never considered it a threat. 
ARCHER: Hitler was able to concentrate on the West. 
REED: After France, Belgium and the Netherlands fell. Hitler quickly took England and then the eastern United States. 
T'POL: But Vosk and his men arrived on Earth recently. A few years ago. 
ARCHER: Then they couldn't have been responsible for the changes that took place in 1916. 
REED: The police never captured Lenin's assassin. Some bystanders claimed that the killer vanished into thin air. 
T'POL: Daniels said that different factions in the Temporal War are changing history throughout the timeline. Maybe this assassin was working for one of them. 
REED: But I thought we were here to prevent Vosk from starting the temporal war. 
ARCHER: Chicken or the egg. 
HOSHI [OC]: Bridge to Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
HOSHI [OC]: I'm receiving a transmission. It's Vosk. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: This is Captain Archer. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: Your voice sounds familiar, Captain. Have we met? 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: What do you want? 
VOSK [OC]: I believe I have two of your men. 
ARCHER: Are they all right? 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: I think it would be mutually beneficial to discuss this face to face. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: We can bring you aboard. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: I was thinking of a more neutral location. There's a remote area outside the city. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: That's not what I'd consider neutral. 
VOSK [OC]: You have scanners. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: Examine the area before coming down. I'll have three men with me. And your crewmen. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: A few hours ago, you tried to kill me. 
VOSK [OC]: The situation has changed. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: I'm sending you the coordinates. If you're interested, meet me in one hour. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: Got 'em. 
[Road through the wood]
(Archer beams down with two MACOs, then a covered jeep approaches their position. Vosk and two soldiers get out.) 
VOSK: It's good to see you again, Captain. 
ARCHER: Where are my men? 
(Vosk signals for Tucker and Travis to be let out the back of the jeep.) 
TUCKER: Captain! I don't believe it. How can you be 
ARCHER: (interrupting him) Are you all right? 
TUCKER: We weren't exactly treated like royalty. 
VOSK: I apologise for the aggressiveness of our questioning. 
TRAVIS: Aggressive? 
VOSK: We were operating under a false impression. 
TUCKER: We're okay. 
ARCHER: Get back to the ship. 
TUCKER: Wait a minute. You're coming with us. 
ARCHER: Trip. (into communicator) Beam them up. 
(The pair get taken up to safety.) 
VOSK: You have your men, Captain. Now it's your turn to reciprocate. 
ARCHER: How? 
VOSK: I wish to discuss something with you. 
ARCHER: Go on. 
VOSK: A species with your level of technology doesn't possess the capability for time travel. 
ARCHER: We had a little help. 
VOSK: As I suspected. What do you know about me? 
ARCHER: I know that you're trapped here, and that you're trying to get back to the twenty ninth century. I also know you've made a deal with the Germans. They're giving you supplies, helping you build a time machine. 
VOSK: I see I was both right and wrong about you. You're not a temporal agent. But you're here to do their bidding. 
ARCHER: If you carry out your mission, if you make it back to the twenty ninth century, you will ignite a war that will devastate the timeline. 
VOSK: You've only heard one side of the story, Captain. The temporal agents who sent you here are a tyrannical sect imposing their will on countless cultures throughout history. 
They enforce the Temporal Accords, preserve the time line. 
VOSK: They manipulate the time line to serve their own needs. If you've ever dealt with them, then you know they do much more than watch history unfold. They interfere with events. They have an agenda. 
ARCHER: So do you. 
VOSK: At least I don't hide my intentions. It's true, I don't agree with the Temporal Accords. I believe that time travel is a technology no different than your warp drive, to be utilized for the benefit of all species. Societies, cultures can be improved through careful manipulation of historical events. 
ARCHER: Who decides what improvements are needed? 
VOSK: I won't be drawn into a philosophical discussion. There's one simple reason why you should help me, Captain. 
ARCHER: And what's that? 
VOSK: I can send you back to your century. 
ARCHER: History's been changed. The century I left will be completely different. 
VOSK: Once I've defeated the temporal agents, I'll reverse the damage done to your timeline. Your history will return to the way it was. I'm severely limited by twentieth century Earth technology. The resources aboard your ship will greatly accelerate my task. Go back. Reunite with your crewmen, and consider what I have said. 
[Sickbay]
ARCHER: How are they doing? 
PHLOX: A few cuts and bruises. 
TUCKER: What happened after we beamed up? You make some kind of deal? 
ARCHER: He thinks we're considering it. 
TUCKER: Are we? 
PHLOX: Captain. 
(He shows Archer a PADD.) 
ARCHER: What'd you see down there? 
TUCKER: We were in some huge building, like a factory. They're constructing something big. The Germans are helping him. 
TRAVIS: I overheard them talking. They mentioned something about a Temporal conduit. I know it sounds crazy, but I think it's a time machine. 
ARCHER: Daniels sent us here to stop them from completing it. Problem is, it's protected by some kind of energy shield. 
(Archer is watching Trip carefully as he stands up. Phlox is by a comm. unit. Suddenly, Tucker attacks Archer and as they struggle, he wriggles like a Suliban to get away. In the corridor, 'Tucker is shot down by MACOs. It's really Silik.) 
[Alicia's apartment]
(Alicia is seeing to Carmine's injured leg.) 
ALICIA: Who dressed this? 
CARMINE: Nicky Giorgio. What do you want? He's a mechanic. 
ALICIA: He should stick to cars. At least it doesn't look infected. 
CARMINE: Could have been worse. Could have ended up like Sal. 
ALICIA: It's a miracle you got away. 
CARMINE: Guess you should know. 
ALICIA: What's that supposed to mean? 
CARMINE: (wincing) I heard a rumour. When the soldiers cornered you and Archer, you two disappeared into thin air, like ghosts. 
ALICIA: That's crazy 
CARMINE: That's what I said. But then again, I didn't believe in Nazi Martians, you know, not until I saw one myself. 
(He takes a communicator out of his pocket.) 
CARMINE: Want to tell me what this is? 
ALICIA: You went through my jacket?! 
CARMINE: I was looking for a cigarette. What is it? 
ALICIA: (trying to grab it) It's a radio. 
CARMINE: I never seen a radio like this. It looks like that thing Archer took off that Martian guy, or whatever he was. 
ALICIA: (getting it back) Archer gave this to me so that I could talk to him. 
CARMINE: Talk to him? Where is he? Alicia, you've been like a little sister to us. You're going to start keeping secrets now? 
[Brig]
ARCHER: Where's my Engineer? Silik. This disk you were carrying. It contains schematics of Vosk's facility. This is what you came here for, isn't it? 
SILIK: You persist in asking questions you know I will not answer. 
(Archer opens the door and goes in.) 
ARCHER: I'll try answering them myself, then. Your benefactor wants to do more than just project his image into the past. He wants the technology to travel into the past. Somehow, he found out that Daniels was sending Enterprise here, so you were ordered to hitch a ride. Your mission was to break into Vosk's compound and steal this. 
SILIK: Tell me, how was I planning to send that to the future? 
ARCHER: Maybe that's why you came back aboard. Maybe you need Enterprise. 
SILIK: An impressive display, Captain. 
ARCHER: I'm glad you're not disappointed. 
SILIK: Though I'm not implying you're correct in any of your assumptions. 
ARCHER: Of course not. 
SILIK: But you don't have the answer you're seeking. The whereabouts of your missing crewman. 
(Archer pushes Silik up against the wall.) 
ARCHER: I think you left him somewhere inside Vosk's compound. And for your sake, he'd better be alive. 
SILIK: You've changed, Captain.
ARCHER: (releasing him) And not at all for the better. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
(Tucker wakes up in a small room with big pipes running down one corner. His hands are tied, and voices can be heard.) 
VOSK: (into communicator) A large amount of data has been stolen from our computer system, Captain. 
[Bridge]
VOSK [OC]: We found trace amounts of bioresidue. The thief is from your time period. 
ARCHER: He's Suliban. He's aboard my ship. He's a stowaway. 
VOSK [OC]: We've encountered his faction before. I want to speak with him. 
ARCHER: I can't allow that. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: And I suppose you aren't examining the technology he stole from us. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: I reserve that right. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: And I reserve the right to destroy you. 
[Bridge]
VOSK [OC]: I have a plasma-cannon aimed at your ship, Captain. 
ARCHER: And I have phase-cannons aimed at your facility. 
[[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: I want an answer to my proposal. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: The answer is no. 
(At a nod from Vosk, a swastika-ed gun comes out from a rooftop and starts firing. Enterprise shakes and an alarm sounds.) 
ARCHER: Return fire. 
T'POL: Their shields are still holding. 
(Another hit blows a circuit.) 
ARCHER: Travis. 
[[Nazi Weapons Facility]
SCIENTIST: They're moving out of range. 
KRAUL: We needed them. 
VOSK: We'll complete our objective with the resources at hand. Resume your work. 
[Bridge]
REED: Engines took a serious hit. Weapons are down. 
ARCHER: Get to work on repairs. (to T'Pol) Keep looking over those schematics. Find a way to disable the shields protecting that compound. 
[Brig]
ARCHER: I'm getting my crewman back. You're going to help me get inside the facility. 
SILIK: And then? Are you going to destroy it? 
ARCHER: Yes. 
SILIK: I don't care about your crewman, Captain, but I don't want Vosk to succeed any more than you do. I'll help you. There is one problem. I use my genetic enhancements to get inside the building. Your presence will negate that advantage. 
ARCHER: We'll work around it. 
[Corridor to the Transporter alcove]
(Archer and Silik are in casual clothes for the mission. T'Pol 
hands over a PADD.
) 
T'POL: You should be able to deactivate the shields from this console. Here's the procedure. The data from the disk was extremely helpful. 
SILIK: You're welcome. 
ARCHER: When the shields are down, give us ten minutes, then destroy the facility. 
T'POL: Our targeting array is offline. We're in need of Commander Tucker's skills. 
ARCHER: Do what you can. Move in close, and fire point-blank if you have to. 
T'POL: Understood. Good luck. 
(She beams them down.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
GENERAL: Three American divisions have crossed the Ohio River. Two more are advancing from the south toward Washington. By direct order from the Fuhrer, the squadron is to be transferred immediately to Luftwaffe Regional Command. I am to personally oversee the deployment. 
VOSK: Weapons of this complexity require extensive training to operate. 
GENERAL: We'll discuss the particulars once you've fulfilled your obligation. 
VOSK: Six hours. 
GENERAL: Why the delay? 
VOSK: The planes must be readied for transport. 
GENERAL: Six hours. 
(The General leaves.) 
VOSK: We're leaving tonight. Begin preparations. 
KRAUL: Each time we open a conduit, it collapses within seconds. 
VOSK: Human leaders often speak of destiny. The conduit will hold.
(In his little room, Trip clambers up the pipes to smash the light bulb, then uses the shards of glass to cut the ropes around his wrists.) 
[Street - night]
(Silik has a human face now.) 
SILIK: How do I look? Better? From my dealings with you and your crew, I'd come to believe that your race was inherently unaggressive. 
(Archer checks on a corpse in the street.) 
ARCHER: We've come a long way in a short time. 
SILIK: One thing is clear. When necessary, humans are fully capable of reverting to old methods. The way you handled that Xindi threat was extremely effective. No doubt it's the reason why Daniels chose you to stop Vosk. 
(They hide from an army patrol.) 
ARCHER: Speaking of Vosk, seems to me that you both have a common enemy, Daniels. Why hadn't you decided to work together? 
SILIK: One doesn't join forces with Vosk. 
ARCHER: He's found some partners here. 
SILIK: They're only a means to an end. To him and his followers, other species exist only to serve their needs. 
ARCHER: Sounds like you and Vosk have some history. 
SILIK: His faction once tried to eradicate the Suliban. They travelled into our past, altered it to prevent our species from attaining sentience. 
ARCHER: Then how is it that you're here? 
SILIK: He was stopped by the Temporal Agents. 
ARCHER: Are you saying you owe Daniels' people your lives? 
SILIK: They still oppose us, they're still our enemy. That will never change. 
(They come across a group of men around an oil drum fire.) 
MAN: What the hell do you want? 
ARCHER: I'm looking for Alicia Travers. 
MAN: Who's asking? 
ARCHER: My name's Archer. 
CARMINE: Still hunting Martians? 
ALICIA: You just missed Billie Holiday. 
CARMINE: What are we going after this time? The Loch Ness monster? 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: I'm picking up a surge of radio chatter. Orders coming in German and English. 
REED: There's heavy bombing. Most of it in eastern Pennsylvania and southern Virginia. It could be an Allied attack. 
T'POL: Could it pose a danger to the Captain? 
REED: The closest fighting is a hundred kilometres south of New York City. Incredible. 
T'POL: What's our repair status? 
REED: Engines are at thirty six percent. Manoeuvring thrusters are offline. 
T'POL: Weapons? 
REED: The targeting array's fried. We'll be shooting in the dark. 
[Street]
CARMINE: What's so important about this facility? 
ARCHER: They're building weapons there. Extremely powerful weapons. 
CARMINE: What I hear, you have some pretty powerful weapons yourself. I made her tell me everything. Not that I believe all of it. 
SILIK: Do we really need these people? 
CARMINE: What do you mean, these people? 
SILIK: I don't see how they can be of any use to us. 
CARMINE: I'll tell you how I can be of use to you. How about I start removing your teeth with my knuckles? 
ARCHER: All right. 
SILIK: Are you threatening me? 
CARMINE: Hey, give the man a prize. 
SILIK: Why would you do that? 
CARMINE: I'm going to kill this guy. 
ALICIA Carmine, Carmine! Archer, what do you want us to do? 
CARMINE: Hey, I haven't signed off on this yet. Sal went along with you, and look what it got him. If I'm gonna lose any more people, they're better be a good reason. 
ALICIA: Look, you know what, Carmine? I'm gonna make this real easy for you. I'm gonna help him. All you have to do is decide whether or not you're gonna help me. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility - temporal conduit machine]
(Vosk is standing on the platform, giving a speech, as Tucker listens from a hiding place.) 
VOSK: Our greatest scientist once said, Every moment we live, we are moving through time. We've earned the right to chose which direction. The mastery of time has allowed us to perfect ourselves. To reach our full potential as a people and to vanquish those who oppose us. There's just one last enemy to deal with. Soon, history will belong to us. We will stretch out our hands and mold it according to our will. Not even the gods of our ancestors could have imagined such power. My brothers, we are going home. 
(The alien scientists give a Nazi-style salute.) 
[outside the Nazi Weapons Facility]
(The soldiers on guard have their night wrecked by a car crashing through the gates and people shooting at them, and throwing grenades.) 
CARMINE: What a way to spend a Saturday night. 
(Archer and Silik head for the main storage area. Silik is unarmed.) 
SILIK: It only opens from the inside. 
(he squeezes through an air vent) 
CARMINE: There's too many of 'em! Come on! 
(The New York gangsters are about to retreat when Alicia arrives with another car load of reinforcements.) 
CARMINE: It's nice to see you. 
(Silik lets Archer inside.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
KRAUL: Insurgents. We don't know how many. 
VOSK: A fortuitous development. Let the Germans deal with them. Continue with the preparations. 
(Meanwhile, in a corridor -) 
ARCHER: We're in. We're making our way to the console. 
T'POL [OC]: Our targeting array is still down. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: We're going to have to drop out of orbit to get close enough. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
ARCHER: Understood. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Have you located Commander Tucker? 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
ARCHER: Not yet. It's second on my list, believe me. 
(They find a room full of drums, and a console.) 
SILIK: Take cover. 
(Two alien scientists walk past.) 
SILIK: They're activating the conduit. Work fast, Captain. 
(He does, and an alarm sounds.) 
[Bridge]
REED: He did it. 
T'POL: Take us in. 
TRAVIS: Aye. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
(Archer is exchanging weapons fire with a group of soldiers.) 
SILIK: We're in an extremely precarious position. 
ARCHER: I hadn't noticed. 
SILIK: It might help if I had a weapon. 
ARCHER: Sorry, only one to go around. 
(Archer returns some more fire, looks around and he's gone.) 
ARCHER: Silik. 
(The Suliban has got the drop on the soldiers and is disposing of them out with their own guns. He turns to Archer, smugly, then gets shot in the back several times by one last German. Archer takes him out.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
KRAUL: The Earth ship has entered the atmosphere. 
VOSK: Activate the plasma weapon. 
KRAUL: We can't spare the power. 
VOSK: Then deploy the squadron. Destroy them. 
GENERAL: No! The squadron's going to the front. 
VOSK: Execute my order. 
GENERAL: I am taking command of this facility. You are relieved. 
(Vosk shoots the General in the stomach, and kills his two guards before they can ready their rifles.) 
VOSK: I'm sorry, General, but I'm afraid I have to end our alliance. 
(He administers the coup de grace.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
ARCHER: Archer to Enterprise. Archer to Enterprise. 
(Silik now looks Suliban again.) 
SILIK: They're in the atmosphere. Ionisation. The signal can't penetrate. 
ARCHER: We'll get you out of here. 
SILIK: I think not. You've proven a worthy opponent, Captain. I would've preferred to die fighting you, but I suppose I can settle for this. (dies) 
ARCHER: Trip. 
(Tucker points a gun at him.) 
TUCKER: Hold it right there. 
ARCHER: It's me. 
TUCKER: Shut up. Drop the disguise, Silik, or I'll blow your ugly head off. 
(Archer turns slightly so Tucker can see the dead Silik.) 
ARCHER: If you do, you'll probably regret it. 
TUCKER: Captain? 
ARCHER: Good to see you, Commander. 
TUCKER: You're alive? 
ARCHER: As long as you don't pull that trigger. 
TUCKER: I can't believe it. 
ARCHER: The building's about to blow up. 
TUCKER: Gotcha. 
ARCHER: This way. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Distance? 
REED: One hundred kilometres. Targeting scanner still can't get a lock. I'm going to have to do this the old-fashioned way. Switching to visual scanners. 
T'POL: Slow us down. Two hundred kph. 
REED A group of aircraft are taking off from the base north of Manhattan. They're headed towards us. 
[Outside the Weapons Compound]
(Archer and Trip come out of the building.) 
CARMINE: Nicky, cover them. 
ARCHER: You got to pull your people out. 
CARMINE: Oh, I'm having too much fun. 
ARCHER: In a few seconds, this entire area is going to be bombed. 
CARMINE: Planes? Start falling back! We got to get the hell out of here! 
ALICIA: I guess we have to say good-bye all over again. It's harder the second time. 
ARCHER: I can't argue with that. 
ALICIA: I want my neighbourhood back, the way it was. And my husband, I want him home. Fix all that, okay? 
ARCHER: I'll try. Thank you. 
ALICIA: Yeah. 
CARMINE: Hey, you're welcome. 
(A squadron of planes passes overhead.) 
[Bridge]
REED: German dive-bombers. Stukas. Nothing too much to worry about. However, they were fitted with sirens to frighten the enemy during an attack. They fire seven point nine millimetre rounds. 
T'POL: Mister Reed. 
REED: We're too far away. I still can't see it. 
(Enterprise is being strafed by the aircraft, and they are making an impact on what is left of the hull.) 
T'POL: It appears that bullets and sirens aren't all they have.
ARCHER: Photonic torpedoes. 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
(Finally, a temporal conduit is formed.) 
ALIEN: It's holding! 
[Bridge]
T'POL: I'm reading a powerful energy surge inside the facility. 
ARCHER: Malcolm. 
REED: One more kilometre. 
(The ship sweeps down over the skyscrapers, shooting down aircraft as it goes.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
(Vosk steps up in front of the conduit.) 
VOSK: Destiny. 
[Bridge]
REED: I can see it. 
ARCHER: Take it out. 
(Three torpedoes rip into the building, turning it into a ball of flame.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
VOSK: No! 
[Timeline flux]
(Archer is surrounded by disjointed images disappearing and appearing - pyramids, Easter Island, American Civil War soldiers, Stonehenge.)
DANIELS: It's quite a sight. The timeline's resetting itself. You did it. Vosk is dead. He didn't make it back. All of the damage he caused, it never happened. 
ARCHER: And you're here to give me a pat on the back. 
DANIELS: In a way. 
ARCHER: Well, I don't want it. I want you to leave me and my crew alone. We're done with you and your damn Temporal Cold War. 
DANIELS: It's coming to an end because of what you did. You have no idea how many lives you've saved. 
ARCHER: I'll take your word for it. Just send us home. 
(Margaret Thatcher, someone using a laptop, the Clintons, Mandela, Blair and Bush.) 
DANIELS: It's almost ready. Good-bye, Jonathan. Captain. It's been a privilege. 
(And with an image of Archer running down the gantry before the Xindi weapon exploded, the Bridge shimmers back into view.) 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Everyone all right? 
(Nods all round.) 
TRAVIS: Captain. 
(The viewscreen shows a half-lit blue and white planet.) 
ARCHER: We're in the right place. Let's find out if we're in the right time. Hoshi? 
HOSHI : Multiple signals. Lunar One Colony, orbital platform, San Francisco. They're all calling in. 
T'POL: I'm picking up vessels approaching. Dozens of them. 
ARCHER: Do they look friendly? 

