Episode Number: 93
The Enterprise Transcripts - Bound
Bound
Mission date: Dec 27, 2154 
Original Airdate: 25 Mar, 2005
Captain's Starlog, December 27, 2154. We're on course for the Berengarius system, a potential site for the first in a series of proposed Starbases. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: A Vulcan science vessel surveyed the seventh planet over fifty years ago. The file states it's an M class world with a flourishing ecosystem. No intelligent life. 
ARCHER: Sounds promising. 
T'POL: They did report one distinctive feature which bears mentioning. 
ARCHER: And that is? 
T'POL: A species of flying reptile, some reportedly over two hundred metres long. They're also said to breathe fire. There's been lingering questions over the accuracy of this report. 
ARCHER: Can't wait to find out. 
REED: There's a ship. It's on an intercept course. 
T'POL: I don't recognise the configuration. 
ARCHER: Let's see it. 
(A rounded, green ship is on the viewscreen.) 
REED: Doesn't look very friendly. 
ARCHER: Tactical Alert. Let's see what they want, Hoshi. 
HOSHI: They're responding. 
(The caller is green, wearing leather and with bits of metal on his head.) 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: And you are? 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: Harrad-Sar. Deactivate your weapon systems immediately, or I'll be forced to open fire. (pause for opening sequence) You're still targeting my ship. 
ARCHER: And you're targeting mine. It seems we're at an impasse. 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: Not for long. 
ARCHER: Instead of sitting here pointing guns at each other, why don't we deactivate our weapons together? 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: Very well. (snaps fingers) 
ARCHER: Now, what can we do for you? 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: I have a proposal to make. 
ARCHER: I'm listening. 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: I prefer to discuss business in person. You're invited aboard my ship. 
ARCHER: We've dealt with your people before. The experience wasn't one I care to repeat. If you can give me some idea what this is about? 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: What I have to say could smooth relations between your Starfleet and the Orion Syndicate. My hospitality is renowned, Captain. I don't offer it to everyone. And once I have been refused, I never offer it again. 
[Corridor and Transporter alcove]
(The two officers are accompanied by two MACOs.) 
REED: The last Orions we ran into almost turned nine of our crewmembers into slaves. Let's at least ask him to come here. 
ARCHER: I have a feeling he'd see it as an insult. 
REED: I can live with that. 
ARCHER: Any chance to improve relations with the Syndicate, I'm willing to take that risk. Anything to have one less hostile species out there. 
(Archer and the two MACOs beam over to the Orion ship.) 
[Engineering]
KELBY: Seven of the transfer conduits are back on line. The eighth is still giving us some trouble. 
TUCKER: Did you run a phase diagnostic? 
KELBY: Came back negative. 
TUCKER: Better work up a bypass. 
KELBY: Already underway. 
(Kelby walks away.) 
TUCKER: Kelby. Kelby. 
(Tucker catches up with him.) 
TUCKER: We have a problem? 
KELBY: I'm not sure what you mean, sir. 
TUCKER: Look, the Captain asked me to stick around. As soon as the repairs are done, I'm back on Columbia. 
KELBY: And it's no reflection on me that the Captain wants you to oversee the work. 
TUCKER: That's right. I was his Chief Engineer for four years. 
KELBY: Well, it doesn't look like he's ready to let you go. I'd better get on it. 
(Kelby leaves as T'Pol arrives.) 
TUCKER: He thinks he's going to lose his promotion. 
T'POL: Is there anything I can do to help? 
TUCKER: With Kelby? 
T'POL: With the engine. 
TUCKER: I could use a second pair of eyes on the field matrix. The pattern's bothering me, and I can't figure out why. 
T'POL: I'll take a look at it. 
TUCKER: Thanks. 
T'POL: Commander, have you been experiencing any unusual daydreams? 
TUCKER: Daydreams? 
T'POL: Accompanied by intense auditory and visual sensations that would involve me. 
TUCKER: You're wondering if I've been having any daydreams about you? 
T'POL: Essentially. 
TUCKER: Well, let me think. No, nothing comes to mind. 
T'POL: Forget I mentioned it. 
TUCKER: Have you been having daydreams about me? 
T'POL: It's not important. 
TUCKER: You going to tell me what this is about? 
T'POL: No. 
[Harrad-Sar's ship]
(In a room more like something you'd find on a planet than a ship, Harrad is serving food and drinks.) 
HARRAD: I am a privateer. My allegiance is to myself alone. I earn my living in various ways. Buying, selling. 
REED: Plundering. 
HARRAD: When the situation calls for it. Piracy is a risky business. I prefer commerce. This (the blue drink) is from a planet in the Gorn Hegemony. 
REED: The Gorn? 
HARRAD: The less said about them, the better. But they do brew the finest Meridor in the five systems. 
ARCHER: Delicious. 
HARRAD: I'm pleased. You have acquired something of a reputation, Captain. 
ARCHER: Favourable, I hope. 
HARRAD: Well, you're wanted in the Klingon Empire, the Orion Syndicate. I don't know. I would imagine such a man would have a more robust appetite. 
ARCHER: With all those people after me, I need to stay quick on my feet. 
HARRAD: Yes. 
ARCHER: You said you had something important to discuss with us. 
HARRAD: Well, it's poor custom to discuss business before entertainment. If the food didn't arouse your hunger, this should. 
(Enter three skinny green women with their modesty barely covered, who proceed to dance for the Starfleet men.) 
HARRAD: What do you think? 
REED: I can't think. 
HARRAD: Captain? 
ARCHER: I'd have to agree with my tactical officer. 
HARRAD: I think she likes you. 
(He means the one in the red bra.) 
HARRAD: Her name is Navaar. She's the most experienced of the three. They're sisters. I purchased them at a trading post you once visited. Incredible, aren't they? They can make you forget most of your troubles. Of course, creatures such as these come with troubles of their own. But women are the same throughout the galaxy, aren't they? 
(The dance ends, the girls leave.) 
HARRAD: Now we can talk business. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: He claims he's discovered a planet with large deposits of magnesite. Enough to build a thousand warp reactors. And that's just what his scanners could detect. He's offering to give us the coordinates. 
T'POL: Why would he divulge this information? 
ARCHER: He doesn't have the infrastructure to get the magnesite out of the ground. 
T'POL: So he wants Starfleet to construct mining facilities. 
ARCHER: And he'll get a ten-percent share. He's also promised to help establish a dialogue between Starfleet and the Orion Syndicate. 
T'POL: Are you going to accept his offer? 
ARCHER: I already have. 
T'POL: I thought you were here seeking my advice. 
ARCHER: Harrad-Sar insisted that I accept a gift to celebrate the transaction. Given the situation, I couldn't refuse. 
[Corridor]
(Malcolm is escorting three green women, and whenever they pass a crewman, another tongue is added to their red carpet.) 
REED: We're on D deck now, where most of the crew quarters are located. 
NAVAAR: Where does Captain Archer stay? 
REED: On E. That's one deck below us. 
MARAS: How many levels are there? 
(Reed is tongue-tied as she touches him.) 
REED: Um. Er. A total of seven. Seven decks. We've arranged these for you. 
(To gaping crewmen -) 
REED: You need something to do? The other two rooms are right next door. I'll show you in a moment. 
[Navaar's quarters]
NAVAAR: Captain Archer has a very large ship. 
REED: It's roomy. 
NAVAAR: But everything's so functional. There's no colour. 
REED: I hadn't really thought about it, to tell you the truth. 
NAVAAR: At least it's private. What's your name? 
REED: Lieutenant Reed. Malcolm. 
NAVAAR: Pleased to meet you, Lieutenant Reed Malcolm. 
(She keeps invading his personal space.) 
REED: Malcolm is fine. Well, someone will be by shortly to show you how everything works. In the meantime, just try to make yourself at home. Right. This way, ladies. 
Captain's Starlog, supplemental. Harrad-Sar has turned over the coordinates of the planet he described. We're en route to verify his claims. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: I've been hearing some concerns from the crew. 
ARCHER: Concerns? 
T'POL: The Orion women. Their presence is becoming disruptive. 
ARCHER: You're telling me. The crew isn't used to having Orions on board. 
T'POL: It's more than that. Our guests visited the Mess Hall this morning. As a result, twelve crewmen reported late for their shifts. 
ARCHER: I get the picture. 
T'POL: It's primarily their attire. 
ARCHER: Or lack of it. (his grin fades away at her look) I'll see about assigning them some clothes. 
T'POL: It might also be a good idea if you have a word with them. They're still under the impression they belong to you. Unless a new policy has been instated, I believe Starfleet doesn't condone slavery. 
ARCHER: I'll speak to them first chance I get. 
T'POL: Thank you. 
[Gymnasium]
[Travis is already pumping some serious iron when Reed enters.) 
TRAVIS: Lieutenant. 
(Reed starts up a running machine.) 
REED: Have you seen them yet? 
TRAVIS: I ran into one of them in the corridor. They're really 
REED: Yeah, I know. I know. What are you trying to do? 
TRAVIS: Get them out of my head! The pain helps. You should try it. 
(Reed stops running and joins Travis on the free weights.) 
REED: Yeah, okay. 
TRAVIS: When I was on my parents' ship, we picked up some Deltans once. Their ship was having engine trouble. 
REED: I don't know that species. 
TRAVIS: The females are unbelievably attractive. Very open about 
(Travis can't lift that weight any more.) 
TRAVIS: I was fifteen. I couldn't think straight. I could barely breathe. Only thing that got me through it was weight training with my dad. He said if I was exhausted, idle hands and all that 
REED: Well, did it help? 
TRAVIS: Helped my biceps. I'd go heavier. 
[Engineering]
(A green goddess strolls in.) 
KELBY: What are you doing here? 
D'NESH: I wanted to thank you. You were very kind this morning, helping me find the Mess Hall. 
KELBY: It was no problem. Look, I 
D'NESH: Wow. Is that the engine? 
KELBY: It's the warp reactor. 
D'NESH: You can feel the power. You promised you'd show me Engineering. 
KELBY: I know. 
D'NESH: Harrad-Sar never let us leave our rooms. I've never seen anything like this place. 
KELBY: I could show you around. 
D'NESH: If it won't get you into trouble. 
KELBY: Come on. 
[Sickbay]
HOSHI: What've you got for a headache? 
(Phlox is not entirely steady on his feet.) 
PHLOX: That depends on what's causing it. How long have you been experiencing this? 
HOSHI: A few hours. What is it? 
PHLOX: Ensign Keeley was here with a headache several minutes ago. 
HOSHI: Is she all right? 
PHLOX: Perfectly, just as you are. 
HOSHI: It's probably just stress. 
PHLOX: There's been plenty of that going around. 
HOSHI: Or it could be our new passengers. 
PHLOX: The Orion females? Why should they give you a headache? 
HOSHI: I'm just not used to seeing guys trip over themselves like that. 
PHLOX: Just a little healthy sexual energy. Helps keep the blood pumping. 
HOSHI: If you ask me, it's pumping a little too hard. 
PHLOX: I'm surprised at you, Ensign. 
HOSHI: Why? 
PHLOX: You never struck me as being prone to jealousy. This should do very nicely. 
(Then he falls to the floor.) 
HOSHI: Phlox! 
PHLOX: It's all right. Well, I must be nearing a sleep cycle. 
HOSHI: I thought you just had one. 
PHLOX: You're right, I did. A week ago. 
[Engineering]
(Tucker is supervising work on the top of the engine.) 
TUCKER: It's a good bet the problem's right there. Take it apart. 
(The crewman leaves, and then he hears giggling from below.) 
KELBY: The injectors feed into the dilithium chamber. 
D'NESH: That's where the matter and antimatter mix. 
KELBY: That's right. 
D'NESH: The crystals let you control the reaction. 
KELBY: That's right. 
TUCKER: Lieutenant. Talk to you a second? 
(Kelby somehow tears himself away from her.) 
TUCKER: What's going on? 
KELBY: Sir? 
TUCKER: You're supposed to be recalibrating the EPS taps, not giving a tour. 
KELBY: She's only been here a couple of minutes. 
TUCKER: Not to mention the fact that she doesn't have clearance. You should've checked with me first. 
KELBY: Well, I guess I can't do anything right. 
TUCKER: Just ask her to leave. 
KELBY: No, sir. I'm not through talking to her. 
TUCKER: That was an order. 
KELBY: And I'm refusing. 
TUCKER: What the hell's the matter with you? 
KELBY: You've been on my case since the second you got back. That's what the hell's the matter with me. And I'm telling you, it stops here. 
TUCKER: Kelby, you're walking a fine line. 
KELBY: So are you, Commander. 
TUCKER: You're confined to quarters. 
KELBY: And what if I don't want to go? 
TUCKER: It's either your quarters or the Brig. Get out of here, now. 
[Navaar's quarters]
(Navaar is lying on the bed, playing with her hair, when the doorbell chimes.) 
NAVAAR: Come in. 
(Archer enters, and she gets up.) 
NAVAAR: I was wondering when you were going to come see me. After all, I've been your property for two days. 
ARCHER: Navaar, you and your sisters don't belong to me, or anyone else. 
(Navaar nuzzles his neck.) 
NAVAAR: I don't understand. 
ARCHER: On my world, slavery's been illegal for hundreds of years. 
NAVAAR: Are you saying that you don't want us? 
ARCHER: I'm saying that you're here as our guests not our property. 
NAVAAR: I've been a slave my entire life, on different worlds, for different owners. What's going to happen to me? 
ARCHER: You're free to start a new life. In the meantime, I've asked my protocol officer, Hoshi Sato, to brief you on ship's operations. There are certain areas that are reserved for Starfleet personnel. 
NAVAAR: I know what happened in Engineering. I've already spoken to D'Nesh. I'm sorry. 
ARCHER: There's no reason to apologise. It's a big adjustment for the three of you. 
NAVAAR: May I ask you something? 
(Now they're sitting on the bed.) 
NAVAAR: Do you find me attractive? 
ARCHER: I'd be lying if I said no. 
NAVAAR: I've known so few honest men. And even though you don't wish to own me, I still wish to please you. If I choose to do this, (kisses him) would that violate your ship's protocol? 
ARCHER: Not necessarily. 
T'POL [OC]: Bridge to Captain Archer. Bridge to Captain Archer. 
(He breaks the embrace with great reluctance.) 
ARCHER: Archer here. 
T'POL [OC]: We're coming up on the planet. 
ARCHER: I'll be right there. 
[Bridge]
(Archer seems drunk or drugged when he finally arrives on the Bridge.) 
REED: I recommend we go to Tactical Alert, sir. We can't be certain this isn't some kind of a trap. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
T'POL: We're already picking up large deposits of magnesite. 
ARCHER: Harrad-Sar was telling the truth? 
T'POL: It would seem so. 
ARCHER: Keep scanning. I want to know how much is down there. 
T'POL: Are you feeling all right? 
ARCHER: I'm fine. 
T'POL: A power reading. Not on the surface, in the upper atmosphere. 
ARCHER: A ship? 
T'POL: Uncertain. 
ARCHER: Try hailing them. 
T'POL: The cloud layer is highly ionised. It's obscuring our scanners. 
ARCHER: Get us closer, within ten kilometres. 
HOSHI: They're not responding. 
REED: There it is. 
(A ship comes up through the planet's cloud layer.) 
T'POL: It's an unknown configuration. 
REED: They're locking weapons. Extremely low yield. Barely scratched us. 
T'POL: It's equipped with numerous sensors, most likely a science vessel. Its presence here could simply be a coincidence. 
REED: They're firing again. No damage. They could shoot at us all day. 
ARCHER: Phase cannons. 
REED: Sir? 
T'POL: A phase cannon hit will destroy them. 
ARCHER: Which means they won't be shooting at us anymore. 
T'POL: If we simply withdraw, they'll most likely cease their attack and move off. 
ARCHER: And maybe they won't. Target them. Lieutenant. 
REED: Captain? 
ARCHER: Lock phase cannons! 
REED: No. 
(Archer storms over and pushes Reed out of the way.) 
TRAVIS: Sir, they're moving off. 
[Kelby's quarters]
(D'Nesh and Kelby are in bed, relaxing in the afterglow.) 
KELBY: I have just as much experience. I'm smarter, younger. 
D'NESH: You're better than him. 
KELBY: We're the only ones who think that. 
D'NESH: Tucker's going to take back his position? 
KELBY: He denies it, but I know he's planning on staying. 
D'NESH: It doesn't seem fair. 
KELBY: It isn't. Let's not talk about it anymore. 
(She moves away from his reach.) 
KELBY: What? 
D'NESH: I'm used to being with men who take what they want. 
KELBY: What are you talking about? 
D'NESH: You can't let him treat you like this. 
KELBY: He's my superior officer. 
(D'Nesh gets out of bed.) 
KELBY: Where are you going? 
D'NESH: I thought you were different. 
KELBY: Stay. Wait, don't leave. 
D'NESH: What would you do to keep me forever? 
KELBY: Forever? 
D'NESH: What would you do? 
KELBY: Anything. Anything you want. 
(He gets his reward.) 
[Engineering]
(While Tucker is at the main engine controls, Kelby sneaks in on the upper catwalk and starts messing with a panel. Alarms are triggered.) 
TUCKER: Kelby! What the hell are you doing? 
(He drags the engineer from the panel but Kelby knocks him down before continuing. Tucker gets up, they exchange punches and Kelby is knocked out.) 
TUCKER: Blow the dampeners! Move! 
(Enterprise comes to a grinding halt as the warp engines go out.) 
[Corridor]
TUCKER: He blew out every junction in the EPS system. If we hadn't got to him, we might not have a ship under our feet. 
ARCHER: When can we get underway? 
TUCKER: I'm not sure we can get underway. He did a pretty thorough job. 
[Sickbay]
(Kelby is strapped to a biobed.) 
ARCHER: Kelby. 
KELBY: I didn't do anything. 
ARCHER: Tell me what happened. 
KELBY: Whatever he told you, it's a lie. 
ARCHER: Three other people were there. They all saw you. Tell me why you did this. 
KELBY: He's trying to get rid of me. Don't listen to him! 
ARCHER: Kelby. 
PHLOX: Captain, his adrenaline levels are dangerously high. I need to administer a sedative. 
ARCHER: Not till I get some answers first. 
PHLOX: In his current state, he can't give you coherent answers. 
KELBY: I just want to go back to Engineering. 
ARCHER: All right. 
KELBY: I just want to go back to Engineering. 
PHLOX: (injecting him) Be quiet! 
TUCKER: What's wrong with him? 
PHLOX: It's the same thing that's affecting everyone on this ship. It's a highly potent pheromone. When exposed to human males, it accelerates the metabolism, causing aggression and ultimately a form of delusion. 
TUCKER: The Orions? 
PHLOX: Women aboard the ship have also been affected. I've received an increasing number of complaints about headaches and listlessness. I suspect the pheromone acts as a defence mechanism against competition. 
TUCKER: You okay? 
PHLOX: It's impacted my sleep cycle. I'm having to rely on stimulants to stay awake. 
ARCHER: Doesn't seem to be affecting you. 
PHLOX: I've scanned a good number of the crew. So far, the only people who haven't been affected are T'Pol and Commander Tucker. 
TUCKER: Why me? 
PHLOX: I would have to run some more tests, but for the rest of us the effect seems to be cumulative. The longer we're exposed, the more pronounced the results are. 
[Decon Chamber]
NAVAAR: So, this is what you meant when you said we were free to start new lives? 
ARCHER: (holding up a device) We found this in your quarters. 
NAVAAR: It seems we have no privacy either. 
ARCHER: It's a communication device. You've been in contact with Harrad-Sar as recently as two hours ago. 
NAVAAR: And if I have? 
ARCHER: You were sent here to disable my ship. That was his plan from the start, wasn't it? 
NAVAAR: Harrad-Sar contacted me to see if we've been treated well. 
ARCHER: Doctor Phlox believes that prolonged exposure to your pheromones makes men delusional, and extremely vulnerable to suggestion. That's how you convinced Kelby to sabotage our engines. 
D'NESH: Your crewman acted alone. I had nothing to do with it. 
NAVAAR: It seems the only delusion here is your own. 
ARCHER: Damn it! It's time to start telling me the truth! 
NAVAAR: I'm worried about you, Captain. You don't seem well. 
ARCHER: I'm not the one you should be worried about. 
NAVAAR: I can see you're not very experienced at making threats. 
ARCHER: I'm a lot better at carrying them out. 
NAVAAR: We were a gift, nothing more. A true commander would know how to appreciate such a gesture. 
ARCHER: Tell me. When's he going to attack us? 
NAVAAR: No one is coming to attack your ship. 
(There's only glass between their faces.) 
NAVAAR: Please release us. 
(She moves towards the door controls, still looking into Archer's eyes, and he moves with her.) 
T'POL: Captain. 
(The spell is broken as he realises he nearly let them out) 
NAVAAR: I'm obviously not the only woman with power over you. 
(Archer and T'Pol leave, so the women start to work on the MACO guarding them.) 
[Corridor]
ARCHER: Get down to Engineering. Do what you can to help Trip. 
T'POL: It's better if I stay on the Bridge. 
ARCHER: I don't need you to look after me. 
T'POL: You're not immune to these pheromones. Your judgment is impaired. 
ARCHER: I can handle it. We need to get the engines back online. I don't want to be a sitting duck when Harrad-Sar gets here. You have your orders. 
[Engineering]
T'POL: The Captain asked me to offer my assistance. 
TUCKER: Great. You can run through these diagnostics. See if you can find anything that isn't fried. You really think they're coming after us? 
T'POL: It's likely. The transmissions sent by the Orion females suggest that Harrad-Sar's ship is getting closer. 
TUCKER: You know, I keep thinking back to our first mission, when we met the Suliban. I was so damn naive. I actually thought it was the last time we'd have to fight someone. 
CREWMAN: I said leave it alone! 
CREWMAN 2: Get your hands off me! 
TUCKER: Knock if off! That's an order! Start up again, and you'll end up in the Brig, understand? Now go help Masarro with the injectors. Now! (to the other crewman) Get back to work. That's the third one in the last hour. 
T'POL: There have been altercations throughout the ship. The Captain's been affected. I'm concerned about him. 
TUCKER: The thing I can't figure out is why I'm immune. 
T'POL: That might have something to do with me. 
TUCKER: You? 
T'POL: There's a long-held belief that when a Vulcan mates, there's a shared psychic bond. 
TUCKER: We didn't mate. Okay, what do you mean by psychic bond? 
T'POL: It's difficult to explain. Feelings, thoughts, even images can be shared. 
TUCKER: Those daydreams. 
T'POL: What? 
TUCKER: When I said before that I wasn't having any daydreams about you, it wasn't actually true. So if we're bonded, what does this have to do with me not being affected by the Orions? 
T'POL: I'm immune to the pheromones because of my Vulcan physiology. 
TUCKER: And you're making me immune? 
T'POL: Apparently. 
TUCKER: I don't know whether to be relieved or really worried. 
[Bridge]
(Archer is pacing like a caged cat when the proximity sensor sounds.) 
ARCHER: Tactical Alert. Distance. 
TRAVIS: Four hundred kilometres. 
HOSHI: He's hailing us. 
ARCHER: Put him up. 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: Can I be of help, Captain? Do you need a tow? 
We still have weapons. You're not going to get this ship without one hell of a fight. 
I'd rather I didn't have to kill you, but if that's what it takes. The Syndicate wants your head, Captain, and they don't really care whether or not it's attached to your body. 
(The Orion ship starts firing at Enterprise.) 
REED: He's trying to knock out our weapons. 
ARCHER: Then take out his. 
(Some shots are exchanged, but the Orion gets in more hits than Enterprise.) 
REED: Forward phase cannons are down. 
ARCHER: Protect our aft cannons. 
TRAVIS: He's moving too fast. 
ARCHER: Archer to Engineering. 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: Trip. 
ARCHER [OC]: Can we get more power 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: To the thrusters? 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: I'll see what I can do. 
[Bridge]
REED: We just lost aft cannons. 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: Try to divert some of the power from the grav plating. 
(As T'Pol does so, he shouts the warning to the rest of his crew) 
TUCKER: We're going to be a little lighter on our feet. What the hell, I've been meaning to lose a few pounds. 
T'POL: Reducing gravity plating to ninety percent. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Thrusters are back to full. 
ARCHER: Hard to starboard. 
TRAVIS: We're still too slow. 
ARCHER: Torpedoes. 
REED: That last hit just took them out. 
(Then it all goes quiet) 
REED: He's powering down his weapons. 
TRAVIS: He's coming about. 
(Harrad-Sar launches a grapple, and takes Enterprise in tow.) 
ARCHER: Thrusters. Full astern. 
REED: It's not enough. 
HOSHI: He's hailing. 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: Relax, Captain. Enjoy the ride. 
ARCHER: We're not going anywhere. 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid you have an appointment with a pair of Orion marauders. I don't intend to keep them waiting. 
ARCHER: Release my ship! 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: I can see you're upset, and I sympathise, but it's truly out of my hands. We are both slaves to the situation. 
ARCHER: They control you? 
HARRAD [on viewscreen]: You finally realise that. Yes, Captain, you've been operating under a misconception. It is the men who are the slaves, not the women. 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: You seeing what I'm seeing? 
T'POL: His grappler's directly above our main deflector reader. 
TUCKER: Get up to the bridge. I'll be right behind you. 
[Bridge]
(T'Pol goes straight to her station and starts working.) 
ARCHER: The deflector? 
T'POL: We can use it to send a positron burst through the towing cable. If we're lucky, it'll trigger an energy cascade. 
ARCHER: And disable his power systems. Do it. 
T'POL: T'Pol to Engineering. 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: I've almost got it. You'll have to reroute the main EPS conduit. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Understood. 
(The turbolift door opens and the three sisters enter.) 
REED: Captain. 
NAVAAR: Captain. 
REED: Decon chamber, come in. 
NAVAAR: There's no one there. 
REED: What did you do to my men? 
NAVAAR: We asked them to leave, after they released us. 
D'NESH: They were very accommodating. 
ARCHER: Get off my bridge. 
(Navaar tries to climb inside Archer's uniform.) 
NAVAAR: Is that what you really want? Because if it is, I will gladly do as you say. I only want to make you happy. I didn't think you wanted me to go. 
T'POL: Captain. 
NAVAAR: She's jealous. She'll try anything to keep us apart. She'll even destroy your ship. 
T'POL: Her presence is affecting your judgment. 
NAVAAR: Arrest her. 
HOSHI: Don't listen. 
NAVAAR: Do it. 
HOSHI: Captain! 
ARCHER: Lieutenant Reed. 
(Reed is totally distracted by D'Nesh.) 
REED: Yes? 
ARCHER: Take T'Pol to the Brig. 
D'NESH: You heard your Captain. 
REED: (drawing his phase pistol) Aye, sir. 
(Then Tucker shoots him.) 
NAVAAR: Stop him. 
(So Tucker shoots Archer and Travis too.) 
TUCKER: We're ready. 
(T'Pol sends the blue pulse up the towing line. Enterprise is freed and there is a satisfying explosion inside Harrad's ship.) 
T'POL: His engines are down. Weapons as well. It worked. 
NAVAAR: Commander Tucker. I'm impressed. I'm beginning to see who's the true master of this vessel. 
TUCKER: Oh, save it. Captain Archer runs this ship. You're sweet-talking the wrong guy. Let's go. 
Captain's Starlog, supplemental. The Orion women have been returned to Harrad-Sar, who's headed home at very low impulse. 
[Sickbay]
ARCHER: (getting an injection) Okay. 
(Then he;nearly falls off the biobed.) 
PHLOX: The dizziness should fade in a couple of hours. 
ARCHER: Glad to hear that. 
REED: At least the pheromones are wearing off. I haven't thought about the Orions for what, a whole ten minutes? 
TUCKER: The entire crew's been bumping into walls. It's like someone spiked the water supply. 
PHLOX: The after effects will be around for at least a few days. 
ARCHER: Well done. 
T'POL: Thank you, Captain. 
ARCHER: You'll be glad to know my log won't mention your firing on a fellow officer. 
TUCKER: I appreciate that. 
T'POL: A court-martial would hardly be a fitting ending to this incident. At least we've learned something about the Orions. 
REED: Yeah, the women are in charge. 
T'POL: It proves that even the most disagreeable species have some positive attributes. 
ARCHER: Was that my imagination? 
REED: I don't think so. 
ARCHER: It almost sounded like you were making a joke. 
TUCKER: At least, trying to make one. 
T'POL: I assure you, if I ever decide to make a joke, you'll know about it. 
TUCKER: There it is again. 
ARCHER: T'Pol, if I didn't know better, I'd think you were picking up some of Trip's bad habits. 
[Corridor leaving Sickbay]
TUCKER: I guess we proved it again. 
T'POL: Proved what? 
TUCKER: That you and I make a hell of a team. 
T'POL: We do seem to work well together. 
TUCKER: Even more now that we're in each other's heads. 
T'POL: You're returning to Columbia? 
TUCKER: I imagine Captain Hernandez is getting pretty antsy to have her Chief Engineer back. 
T'POL: There are still numerous repairs to be carried out here. 
TUCKER: I think Kelby can handle them. He'd been observing my work pretty carefully, when he wasn't trying to blow up the ship. 
T'POL: Kelby is a fine engineer, but he lacks experience. 
TUCKER: Why don't you just say it? 
T'POL: Say what? 
TUCKER: That you want me to come back. 
T'POL: I believe I did. I think your presence here would be extremely beneficial to our operations. 
TUCKER: No. That you want me back. 
T'POL: I don't know what you mean. 
TUCKER: My mistake. See you around. 
T'POL: Wait, Trip. I want you to come back. 
TUCKER: Then I'll think about it. 
T'POL: Trip! 
(She kisses him, long and hard.) 
TUCKER: Three days ago, I told Captain Hernandez I wanted a transfer back to Enterprise. 
T'POL: Three days ago? 
TUCKER: I realised this is where I was meant to be, and that this thing between us isn't that big of a deal. 
T'POL: Agreed. 
TUCKER: Guess we got a lot of work to do. 

