Episode Number: 24
The Enterprise Transcripts - Desert Crossing
Desert Crossing
Mission date: Feb 12, 2152
Original Airdate: 8 May, 2002
Captain's personal log, February 12, 2152. After a brief detour, we're back on course for Risa. Everyone's looking forward to some much needed shore leave. 
[Archer's quarters]
ARCHER: I've got my eye on a place called Suraya Bay. Villas built right into the cliffs. A perfect spot to enjoy a few good books. Might even do a little diving when I (comm. beep) Computer, pause. Archer. 
T'POL [OC]: We're picking up a distress call, Captain. It's coming from a vessel approximately two light years to port. 
ARCHER: Any idea who it is? 
T'POL [OC]: No, sir. Should we alter course? 
ARCHER: Go ahead. I'll be right there. (to Porthos) Looks like your walk on the beach will have to wait. 
[Corridor]
(Archer is talking with a tall humanoid in flowing robes, with a strange tattoo on the chin.) 
ZOBRAL: Plasma residue? 
ARCHER: Your warp injectors were full of it. 
ZOBRAL: I must be more diligent about routine maintenance. 
ARCHER: Unless you enjoy being adrift in the middle of nowhere. 
ZOBRAL: I'm sorry to inconvenience you something this trivial. Be sure to thank Mister Tucker for his time. 
ARCHER: He wanted me to thank you. It isn't every day he gets to tinker with alien engines. We also found a microfracture on your starboard hull. They're sealing it now. 
ZOBRAL: Oh, your crew is very thorough. 
ARCHER: We were glad to help. 
ZOBRAL: Do you answer every distress call you pick up? 
ARCHER: If we can. 
ZOBRAL: The galaxy could use more people like you. 
[Shuttlepod bay]
ZOBRAL: Tomorrow you'll join me in my home. Bring Commander Tucker. I'll prepare a meal in your honour. It's the least I can do to show my gratitude. 
ARCHER: That's very generous, but I promised my crew a trip to Risa. 
ZOBRAL: That can wait one more day, can't it? 
ARCHER: If I put them off much longer, I'm going to have a mutiny on my hands. 
ZOBRAL: There's going to be a Geskana match. I doubt you've ever seen anything like it. 
ARCHER: Geskana? 
ZOBRAL: Yes. You might want to participate, assuming you enjoy competition. I should warn you, Captain, I am easily offended. 
ARCHER: Send me the coordinates. I'll break the news to my crew. 
ZOBRAL: Dress for warm weather. 
(A little later, Zobral leaves in his repaired shuttle.) 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: If it's all the same to you, Captain I'll sit this one out. 
ARCHER: It's not like you to pass up an away mission. 
TUCKER: Well, I'm up to my ears in work. The impulse manifolds need to be purged, the gravity plating on C deck still isn't aligned. 
ARCHER: Trip. 
TUCKER: Desert, sir? The heat, the dry air. You know how it sucks the life out of me. 
ARCHER: What about the two weeks we spent in Australia? We had a great time. 
TUCKER: Survival training in the outback? Drinking recycled sweat and eating snake meat? That's your idea of a great time? 
ARCHER: It's not going to be like that. I get the feeling Zobral's a man who likes to indulge his guests. He's promised to roll out the red carpet for us. It'll be more fun than purging impulse manifolds. Well, suit yourself. I'll see if Malcolm's interested. But I was hoping you'd enjoy spending some time with your captain. 
TUCKER: Promise I won't have to eat any snake meat? 
[Shuttlepod]
(Landing on a very desert planet.) 
TUCKER: It's hotter than hell out there. Forty one degrees. 
ARCHER: It's a dry heat. 
(He opens the hatch and they get out.) 
[Encampment]
ZOBRAL: Welcome. 
ARCHER: Good to be here. You remember Commander Tucker. 
ZOBRAL: Yes, of course, of course. This is the man who repaired my ship. A brilliant engineer. 
TUCKER: It was just a couple of clogged injectors. 
ZOBRAL: Oh, you are far too modest. Well, I hope you're hungry. I've prepared quite a feast. 
[Zobral's house]
(Eating dinner sitting cross-legged at a hourglass shaped low wooden table.) 
ZOBRAL: Are there many deserts on your world? 
ARCHER: Quite a few, but none as big as this one. 
TUCKER: From orbit, you'd think the entire planet's nothing but sand. 
ZOBRAL: Oh well, we have a handful of lakes and small seas. What about Earth? 
TUCKER: Two thirds water. 
ZOBRAL: Extraordinary. More wine? 
ARCHER: Please. 
TUCKER: What's that called again? 
ZOBRAL: Yalasat. It's made from a cactus that grows in the northern foothills. How was your roast teracaq? 
ARCHER: It's very good. When Trip and I did our survival training, in the desert, we never ate this well. 
TUCKER: I must have lost about three kilos during that last week. The heat always takes away my appetite. 
ARCHER: Doesn't seem to be bothering you now. 
TUCKER: I guess I'm getting acclimated. 
ZOBRAL: It must be difficult adjusting to new cultures. 
ARCHER: It's challenging at times, but that's why we're out here. 
ZOBRAL: Did you ever think of turning back? 
ARCHER: Only once. We were attacked by a hostile species with a lot more firepower than Enterprise. I set a course back to Earth to upgrade our weapons, but we ended up having to do the repairs ourselves. 
TUCKER: They haven't bothered us since. 
ZOBRAL: Sounds like you've had an eventful journey. 
ARCHER: It's had its share of surprises. 
ZOBRAL: Well, perhaps your visit here will be one of them. (more dishes are brought in) Oh, you're going to enjoy this. 
TUCKER: Looks delicious. What is it? 
ZOBRAL: Blood soup. I don't usually eat this well but I promised your Captain an exceptional meal. 
TUCKER: What are these little chunks? 
ZOBRAL: The essence of the male, chopped, and seasoned. 
(The pair are polite but wary as they taste.) 
ARCHER: Beautiful tapestries. 
ZOBRAL: Thank you. Which do you prefer? 
ARCHER: That one's interesting. 
ZOBRAL: It's yours. 
ARCHER: No, no, no. I couldn't. 
ZOBRAL: Please. Consider it a gift. 
ARCHER: You're far too generous. Besides, I wouldn't have any place to hang it. 
ZOBRAL: Something smaller then. 
(Zobral picks up a figurine.) 
ZOBRAL: I know you will appreciate this. A Suliban made it. A Suliban I met several years ago. Interesting people, don't you agree? 
ARCHER: Thank you. 
(A gong sounds.) 
ZOBRAL: The Geskana match is about to begin. I'm hoping you will honour us by participating. 
TUCKER: Now? I just ate half a teracaq. 
ZOBRAL: You will be glad you did. Geskana requires a great deal of strength. 
[Encampment]
(Geskana is a form of lacrosse, with the goal being a hole in a doughnut. Instead of a net in the racket, it's a carved bowl, the ball is luminous blue and disintegrates as it passes through the goal forcefield. Zobral scores.) 
ZOBRAL: Think you're ready? 
TUCKER: I'll give it a shot, Captain. 
ARCHER: I can't promise we'll win any trophies. 
ZOBRAL: This is an ideal game for men like you. 
ARCHER: Thanks. 
(They remove their hats, sunglasses and tops, and join the game.) 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: We're being hailed. 
T'POL: The Captain? 
HOSHI: No. It's coming from a city on the far side of the desert. 
T'POL: Put it through. This is Enterprise. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: Several hours ago, you launched a small vessel to an encampment in the Cygniai Expanse. Would you tell me why? 
T'POL: Our Captain and Chief Engineer were invited. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: By whom? 
T'POL: A man named Zobral. And you are? 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: Chancellor Trellit. Why are you in contact with this man? 
T'POL: His ship was damaged and we assisted him. In return, he offered his hospitality. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: Hospitality? I hope you're aware that most likely you'll never see your Captain or Engineer again. 
[Encampment]
(Trip is sent head over heels by a tackle. Archer helps him up.) 
ARCHER: You all right? 
TUCKER: Never better. 
(The game resumes with vigour.) 
VOICES: Open, open up. Block out. Here, here. Here, here. Get in front of him. Cut him off. Now. 
(Archer shoots for goal but Zobral body-checks him.) 
ZOBRAL: So close. 
TUCKER: Two centimetres to the right and you'd have had it. 
ARCHER: Next time I'll set you up with a no-look pass. 
TUCKER: All right. 
ARCHER: (communicator chirps) Archer. 
T'POL [OC]: I need to speak to you, Captain. 
ARCHER: Can it wait? We're a little busy at the moment. 
T'POL [OC]: It's urgent. Are you alone? 
ARCHER: Hold on a minute. (to Zobral) It's my Science Officer. She says it's important. Do you mind? 
ZOBRAL: Take your time. 
(He walks away and speaks to the other players.) 
ZOBRAL: Catch your breath. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: What's the problem? 
T'POL: I've been contacted by a government official in a city about two hundred kilometres from where you are now. He claims that you're in danger. 
[Encampment]
ARCHER: What kind of danger? 
T'POL [OC]: According to him 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Zobral and his men are terrorists. 
[Encampment]
T'POL [OC]: They've been responsible for numerous attacks on civilian targets within the city. 
ARCHER: Maybe I'm wrong, but they don't seem like terrorists to me. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Perhaps not, but until we're certain who they are, I suggest you return to the ship. 
[Encampment]
ARCHER: We're on our way. 
(Ends transmission.) 
ZOBRAL: I hope everything is all right. 
ARCHER: The problem with being a starship captain is you're never really off duty. I'm afraid we have to cut our visit short. 
ZOBRAL: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. 
TUCKER: hat's going on? 
ARCHER: Problem with the starboard engine. T'Pol says she needs us up there right away. 
TUCKER: Can't we at least finish this quarter? 
ARCHER: Remember those impulse manifolds you said needed purging? You were right. 
TUCKER: Well, thanks for one hell of a game. 
ZOBRAL: You must have other people that can correct this problem. 
ARCHER: I wish we did. 
ZOBRAL: As I said, Captain, I am easily offended. 
ARCHER: We'll come back if there's time, I promise. 
ZOBRAL: (suddenly very angry) You should not believe the Torothans. I have just been informed that we picked up a lengthy transmission between your vessel and Chancellor Trellit. Whatever he told your Science Officer it is not true. I wanted this to wait till later, but I beg you, let me explain the real reason why I asked you here. You have a reputation for being fair, a man of great integrity. When you hear what I have to say, I am certain you will want to help us. 
[Zobral's House]
(Zobral holds up a garment.) 
ZOBRAL: It is called a yrott. The word means to stand apart. When we lived in the cities we were forced to wear these whenever we walked in public. 
ARCHER: I take it those days are over. 
ZOBRAL: When the caste system was finally abolished, we were led to believe that everyone would be treated equally. I remember the celebrations. Yrotts being burned in the streets. People saying that we had finally been granted our rights. The Torothan Clan signed the accord, but they never abided by it. They still control the government, the lands, the resources, everything. We spent ten years staging protests, appealing to the courts, until finally we realised there was only one way to get their attention. We have hundreds of camps just like this one all across the desert, and we are going to keep attacking the Torothans until our voices are heard. They call us terrorists, but the truth is they have been terrorising us for centuries. 
ARCHER: You said you brought me down here for a reason. I have a feeling it wasn't to hear a history lesson. 
ZOBRAL: The Torothans have ten times as many soldiers as we do. We won't last much longer without your help. 
ARCHER: I really don't see what I can do for you. 
ZOBRAL: They said you would be humble. I scanned your vessel. You have an arsenal of powerful weapons, but more importantly, I need your wisdom. Our current strategy isn't working, but I am confident that together we can find one that does. I would be honoured to fight alongside you, as would all of my men. 
(There is a big bang outside.) 
TUCKER: What the hell was that? 
ZOBRAL: Torothan cruisers. Usually they begin their bombardment after dark. They're getting started early today. 
(Weapons are taken from a rack.) 
ARCHER: I don't know what you've heard about me, but I think you've been misled. 
ZOBRAL: What about the Suliban? 
ARCHER: What about them? 
ZOBRAL: You liberated a detention camp, freed thousands of prisoners. 
TUCKER: Who told you that? 
ZOBRAL: A Suliban transport captain. He told me of an explorer who was also a great warrior. A man who helped them defeat an entire army. Captain Jonathan Archer. 
YOUNG MAN: Two cruisers, sir. They've hit one of our pulse cannons. 
ZOBRAL: Prepare my ship. This won't last more than a few hours. We'll continue this discussion later. 
(Zobral throws a rug aside and opens up a cellar trapdoor.) 
ZOBRAL You'll be safe here. 
TUCKER: If it's all the same to you, we'd rather get back to Enterprise. 
ZOBRAL: Oh, your shuttle's thrusters would draw their attention. You'd become an easy target. Please. I wouldn't be a very good host if I allowed you to get killed. 
(They go into the cellar.) 
[Bridge]
REED: There's a number of ships strafing the encampment. 
T'POL: Hail the Captain. 
ARCHER [OC]: Archer. 
T'POL: Captain, are you all right? 
ARCHER [OC]: (almost inaudible under static) We've taken shelter. Should be 
HOSHI: That's the best I can give you. The entire region is flooded with jamming signals. 
TRAVIS: Well, we can't just leave them down there. What about the transporter? 
REED: I can't localise their biosigns. I'll take a shuttlepod and find them myself. 
T'POL: In the middle of an assault? (to Hoshi) See if you can find Chancellor Trellit. 
[Zobral's cellar]
ARCHER: Archer to Enterprise. Enterprise. Respond. (gives up) Rough game. 
TUCKER: That damn midfielder knocked me down three times during the last quarter. I must've bruised half a dozen ribs. 
ARCHER: Better have Doctor Phlox take a look at it when we get back. 
(Another explosion pours sand through the ceiling) 
TUCKER: So, does the great warrior have any ideas about how we're getting out of here? You're not thinking about helping these people? 
ARCHER: I was thinking about those Suliban prisoners. If we hadn't helped them escape, we wouldn't be in this situation. 
TUCKER: T'Pol's ears must be burning. Want your Chief Engineer's advice? 
ARCHER: What is it? 
TUCKER: Walk away. They lured us down here under false pretenses, and now they're asking us to help them fight a war? That's a lot different than breaking a few innocent people out of prison. 
ARCHER: There's just one problem. Zobral. I get the feeling he's not going to take no for an answer. 
(A very close detonation brings the cellar door down on Archer.) 
ARCHER: Come on. 
[Encampment]
(They emerge to discover Zobral's house has been destroyed and the encampment is on fire.) 
TUCKER: I don't know about you, but I'd rather take my chances out in that desert. 
ARCHER: I thought you hated the desert. 
TUCKER: Not tonight. 
(They dash to the shuttlepod for supplies, and then make their getaway.) 
[Bridge]
T'POL: You neglected to mention that you'd be attacking the encampment. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: And you assured me your people would be leaving the surface. Why didn't they? 
T'POL: Captain Archer wanted to speak with Zobral. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: Interesting. Where are they now? 
T'POL: I don't know. If you'd be willing to end your assault, we could launch a search party. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: You expect us to stand by while you send more people to join Zobral? 
T'POL: If you believe we're assisting the terrorists, you're mistaken. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: Of course, I forgot. They just went down for the hospitality. 
T'POL: Let us find them and we'll leave immediately. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: That's what you promised before. We'll locate your men ourselves and deal with them accordingly. That's assuming they haven't already been killed. 
T'POL: Chancellor. 
TRELLIT [on viewscreen]: If you attempt to launch another shuttlecraft, we'll have no choice but to consider it as an enemy vessel. 
(Ends transmission.) 
REED: I've lost sensor contact with the surface. Some kind of orbital dispersion field. I can't get any readings below a hundred kilometres. 
[Desert]
(A perfect blue sky, pale pink sand dunes stretching for ever with Archer and Trip following a sharp wind-cut ridge.) 
TUCKER: Two men out in the open. You'd think they would have spotted us by now. We're down here! 
ARCHER: You're going to have to yell a little louder than that. 
TUCKER: You sure we're going in the right direction? 
ARCHER: It was east of the camp. We're heading east. 
TUCKER: How far? 
ARCHER: About thirty kilometres. 
TUCKER: Thirty? What if we find more of Zobral's men inside? 
ARCHER: It looked abandoned. 
TUCKER: All I saw was sand. I don't remember any buildings. 
ARCHER: That's because you forgot your survival training. Take a good look on your way in at your surroundings. 
TUCKER: Didn't they also say something about only walking at night? Can't we wait until it cools down a little? 
ARCHER: That could be for another eight or nine hours. We need to find shelter. 
TUCKER: Twenty minutes, Captain. 
ARCHER: Trip. 
TUCKER: Ten? 
(He falls to his knees.) 
TUCKER: To cherry-flavoured snow cones. What I wouldn't give for one right about now. 
(They take a sip of water.) 
TUCKER: You hear that? 
ARCHER: What? 
TUCKER: It sounds like a ship. 
ARCHER: I think the heat's getting to you. 
TUCKER: No, listen. Over there. A shuttlepod? 
ARCHER: No. Something a lot bigger. 
(When the alien ship flies over, the pair have covered themselves in sand for camouflage.) 
ARCHER: You all right? 
TUCKER: Yeah. 
[Situation room]
REED: The dispersion field covers half the continent, but if I disable these three satellites, I think I can get a clear reading of the eastern desert. 
T'POL: That might provoke the Torothans. I suggest you try to find a less intrusive way to penetrate their defenses. 
HOSHI: Why Montana? Of all the places the Vulcans could have landed they chose Bozeman, Montana. 
T'POL: Humanity's first warp drive was developed there. It seemed a logical place to begin. 
HOSHI: Well, how did they know it wouldn't alarm other nations? An alien species makes contact with the United States. It could have made a lot of other countries nervous. 
T'POL: What's your point? 
HOSHI: It seems to me that we're going to run into similar problems. We get invited to dinner, and before you know it we're accused of taking sides in a war. 
T'POL: Contacting new worlds always involves unexpected risks. The High Command has very specific protocols regarding planetary conflicts. Eventually, Captain Archer will have to create some directives of his own. 
[Desert]
(One dune ridge looks exactly like another except for the lack of footprints, then Tucker collapses.) 
ARCHER: Come on. Come on. We got to keep moving. Come on. 
TUCKER: My shift doesn't begin for another six hours. 
ARCHER: We're almost there. 
TUCKER: Where? Where are we going? 
ARCHER: Nice little place I know. Plenty of shade. 
TUCKER: Are there blankets down there? I'm freezing. 
ARCHER: Heat exhaustion. Here. Come here. 
(He makes Tucker drink.) 
ARCHER: Here. There you go. Easy, easy. 
(But the bottle's empty.) 
ARCHER: Here take mine. Go ahead. 
TUCKER: No, sir. I won't take another man's water. 
ARCHER: You drink it. That's an order. 
TUCKER: Got to keep moving. 
ARCHER: Take the water, or I'll knock you on your ass and pour it down your throat.;Easy. 
(Tucker drinks, and 
empties that one too.)
TUCKER: Thanks. 
[Bridge]
REED: There's a vessel approaching from the surface. It's Zobral. 
HOSHI: He's hailing us. 
ZOBRAL [OC]: Open your launch doors, quickly. 
T'POL: Is the Captain with you? Commander Tucker? 
ZOBRAL [OC]: No, no. I'll explain once I'm aboard. 
T'POL: Where are they? 
ZOBRAL [OC]: If I'm not in your docking bay in the next thirty seconds, I'll be detected. They'll destroy my ship. 
T'POL: Bring him in. 
[Launch bay]
ZOBRAL: How many? 
REED: There were eighty nine. There were only eighty nine Suliban, not thousands. 
ZOBRAL: And the army you defeated? 
REED: I would hardly call it an army. It was more like a few dozen prison guards, and to be honest they didn't put up much of a fight. 
T'POL: Jonathan Archer is an excellent starship captain, but he's hardly the invincible warrior described to you. 
ZOBRAL: What about his legendary desert tactics? 
REED: Actually, I'm the tactical officer on this ship, and I don't have any experience at waging desert warfare. I'm afraid you've come to the wrong people for help. 
ZOBRAL: All this for nothing. 
T'POL: What about our people? 
ZOBRAL: You have far better sensors than we do. I'm sure you'll find them. 
T'POL: Our sensors are being disrupted and the Torothans have threatened to fire on us if we launch a shuttlepod. 
REED: How did you get here without them seeing you? 
ZOBRAL: There was a narrow gap in their orbital detection grid. It occurs once every forty six minutes, but it is only open for less than one minute. 
REED: I'll need all the pertinent data. 
ZOBRAL: Ha! You'll need more than that. The manoeuvres are extremely difficult. It took us years to learn them. 
REED: I'm a quick study. 
ZOBRAL: You will be shot down before you reach the atmosphere. 
T'POL: With you at the helm our chances would improve. 
ZOBRAL: I don't have time. My men are waiting for me. 
REED: Then they'll have to wait a little longer. You're the one that got our people stranded down there. 
ZOBRAL: They are not my responsibility! 
T'POL: You're mistaken. The Torothans believe we've joined your cause. If Captain Archer and Commander Tucker are apprehended, they'll undoubtedly be treated as members of your clan. They'll become victims of the same oppression you've been fighting all these years. You should feel as responsible for those two men as you do for your own. 
[Desert - ruins]
(Finally, two ruined buildings come into view. The pair get there and settle down in the comparative shade.) 
ARCHER: Easy. 
TUCKER: Home, sweet home. 
(Archer finds a metal bowl with some water in it, and a ladle.) 
TUCKER: I hope you're not planning to hog that all for yourself. 
ARCHER: (sniffs and recoils) Water's off the menu. 
TUCKER: Now, this is my idea of a great time. 
(Tater, Archer has got a fire going and is ladling water into a bottle.) 
TUCKER: What'd you do, rub two sticks together? 
ARCHER: I found a new use for the stun setting. It may not taste too good, but I think I boiled away anything that can hurt us. 
TUCKER: No thanks. I'm not thirsty. 
ARCHER: Let's not get into that argument again. 
(Tucker takes a mouthful and spits it out.) 
TUCKER: Worse than blood soup. 
ARCHER: You need water. 
TUCKER: What I need is sleep. 
ARCHER: You've got a fever, Trip. Your heart's racing, you've got all the symptoms of heatstroke. If you fall asleep, you could lapse into a coma. 
TUCKER: A coma? That sounds nice. 
ARCHER: When we get back to Enterprise you can sleep all you want, but right now, you got to stay with me and drink this water. If I had a needle I'd give it you intravenously, but I don't. Come on, sit up. Here you go. Good. Commander. 
TUCKER: Aye, Captain. 
ARCHER: The warp reactor. Break it down for me. 
TUCKER: What? 
ARCHER: What are the eight major components? 
TUCKER: You got to be kidding me. 
ARCHER: Name them. That's an order. 
TUCKER: Well, there's the drumsticks, thighs, wings. You got anything to eat around here? 
ARCHER: Not at the moment, but when we get back to Enterprise I'll have Chef make you a dinner you'll never forget. What would you like? Anything. 
TUCKER: Not snake meat. 
ARCHER: No, Chef doesn't do snake very well. Tell me what you want. 
TUCKER: Prime rib. 
ARCHER: Okay, what else? 
TUCKER: Mashed potatoes with mushroom gravy. The kind he makes on Wednesday nights. 
ARCHER: No problem. What kind of vegetables? Hey, vegetables? 
TUCKER: Broccoli. 
ARCHER: Dessert? 
TUCKER: Pecan pie. 
[Shuttlepod]
(Flying low at night, search light scouring the sand.) 
ZOBRAL: Take another pass over the eastern basin. 
T'POL: Our sensors would have detected them. 
ZOBRAL: No, there's magnetic deposits below that basin. They could be masking their biosigns. 
REED: (doing the flying) If we increased our altitude this would go a lot faster. 
ZOBRAL: We would also risk being detected. 
[Desert - ruins]
(Trip is given some more water, but he's barely conscious.) 
ARCHER: Geography. Do you know how to play? 
TUCKER: Geography? 
ARCHER: You know, you say Amazon River, which ends in an R and then I say Rhode Island. 
TUCKER: We're going to Rhode Island? 
ARCHER: No. No, it's a game. You're supposed to tell me some place that starts with a D. 
TUCKER: Oh, D. Er, Draylax. 
ARCHER: X? X. 
TUCKER: There's always 
ARCHER: No, no, don't tell me. I know an X. Xanadu. 
TUCKER: That's not a real place. 
ARCHER: It doesn't matter. 
TUCKER: Of course it matters. 
ARCHER: You just used an alien planet, Draylax. 
(Tucker starts coughing, so Archer gives him more water.) 
ARCHER: Easy, easy, easy, Easy, easy. 
(A light flashes overhead, then there's an explosion.) 
TUCKER: All right, whatever you say. Xanadu's fine. 
Archer looks out of a window at a bright object heading towards them - a missile.) 
ARCHER: Get your head down! 
TUCKER: What? 
ARCHER: Get down! 
(There is a very close bang and more of the ruins fall down.) 
ARCHER: We got to get out of here. Come on. 
[Shuttlepod]
REED: I'm picking up weapons fire on the surface. Ninety kilometres due south. 
ZOBRAL: A Torothan mortar. 
T'POL: Would they be targeting one of your settlements? 
ZOBRAL: We don't have any near there. 
T'POL: Set a course and prepare to fire. I believe they've located the Captain and Commander Tucker. 
[Desert]
(A mortar makes a direct hit on the ruins, but the pair are safely out.) 
ARCHER: Come on. Come on. 
[Shuttlepod]
REED: I've got a lock. 
T'POL: Fire. 
(The mortar position blows up.) 
T'POL: I see them. Two humans bearing one one five mark three. 
[Desert]
(A light from above blinds them to its source.) 
TUCKER: I'm just slowing you down. Go. 
ARCHER: I don't remember taking orders from you. 
(He puts down Tucker and gets out his phase pistol, then sees that it's the shuttlepod coming in to land, picks Tucker up again and heads for it. T'Pol helps Tucker in and sees to him while Zobral extends his arm to Archer.) 
[Launch bay]
ZOBRAL: My launch window opens in nine minutes. I should be going. I hope Commander Tucker is going to be all right. 
ARCHER: I doubt I'll ever convince him to set foot on another desert, but he'll be fine. Zobral, even if I were the warrior you thought I was, that's not why we're out here. 
ZOBRAL: Captain. Sub-Commander. 
(Zubral goes to his shuttle.) 
[Corridor]
T'POL: What you told him was correct. Decisions to get involved in the conflicts of other worlds should be left to governments, and not starship captains. 
ARCHER: I know. The irony is, I have the feeling his cause is worth fighting for. 

