Episode Number: 53
The Enterprise Transcripts - The Xindi
The Xindi
Original Airdate: 10 September, 2003
ARCHER [OC]: Last time on Enterprise
ARCHER: There's been an attack on Earth. We've been recalled. 
FUTURE MAN: (to Archer) The probe was sent by the Xindi. They learned that their world would be destroyed by humans in four hundred years. 
REED [Florida]: Is there going to be some kind of service? 
TUCKER: My sister wasn't big on memorials. 
TUCKER [Corridor]: She was no more important than any of them. 
REED: She was more important to you. There's nothing wrong with admitting that. 
SOVAL [storage area]: Are you suggesting this is a Xindi? 
ARCHER: (examining remains) I'd sure as hell like to find out. 
SOVAL [outside Starfleet]: You're to return to Vulcan. 
T'POL: I believe that should be my decision. 
SOVAL [Forrest's office]: (monitor scenes of Vulcans attacking each other) We received a distress call. Every crewman had been anatomically inverted. Their bodies splayed open, and they were still alive. 
T'POL [Ready room]: I want to remain aboard Enterprise. I've decided to resign my commission. 
FORREST [Shuttlepod]: (Enterprise in spacedock) Do you think you'll be comfortable with military on board? 
ARCHER: I don't have a problem with non-Starfleet personnel. I'm going to need all the muscle I can get when we cross into the Expanse. 
TUCKER [Mess hall]: I can't wait to get in there, Captain, to find the people who did this. And tell me we won't be tip-toeing around. None of that non-interference crap T'Pol's always shoving down our throats. 
ARCHER: We'll do what we have to, Trip.
[Xindi Council Chamber]
HUMANOID: It could simply be a coincidence. 
REPTILIAN: You're being naive. Their planet is fifty light years away. It is not a coincidence. 
HUMANOID: How do you know your contacts gave you accurate information? 
INSECTOID: It's the beginning of an invasion. Hundreds of Earth ships will follow. 
HUMANOID: They have no way of knowing that we launched the probe. 
INSECTOID: We must destroy the vessel. 
REPTILIAN: How many humans are aboard? 
INSECTOID: It doesn't matter. They must be destroyed before they find the weapon. 
ARBOREAL: When will it be ready? 
DEGRA: The next series of tests is being prepared. 
REPTILIAN: You will accomplish nothing if all you do is run tests. 
ARBOREAL: We must be patient. We must follow the plan that we all agreed to. 
AQUATIC: Our future is at stake. This council mustn't be divided. 
HUMANOID: (to Reptilian) Learn everything you can about this human vessel. 
[Command centre]
ARCHER: How long till we get there? 
T'POL: Another three hours. 
REED: Did the freighter captain say who we were supposed to contact? 
ARCHER: The foreman of the north mine. He's expecting us. 
T'POL: What makes this captain so certain that the miner's is Xindi? 
ARCHER: He's not. He just said he thinks there was a Xindi aboard a transport he took there a few years ago. 
REED: And it is safe to enter orbit? There are no security considerations? 
ARCHER: He didn't mention any. 
REED: With all due respect, sir, we should approach with caution. The freighter captain was of questionable character. 
ARCHER: Where are we, Malcolm? 
REED: Sir? 
ARCHER: This room. What did it used to be? 
REED: A storage bay, sir. Conduit housings, I believe. 
ARCHER: But it got retrofitted. Starfleet went to a lot of trouble to turn it into our new Command centre. Why is that, Malcolm? 
REED: Because of our mission, sir. 
ARCHER: To find the Xindi, right? 
REED: Right. 
ARCHER: So this state of the art equipment was put in here to help us gather all the pieces of the puzzle, figure out who's trying to destroy Earth. 
REED: Right. 
ARCHER: Six weeks. We've been in this Expanse for six weeks. What data have we gathered? What pieces of the puzzle have we started to put together? Not a single one. We don't have the luxury of being safe or cautious any more, and if the only lead we can find comes from a freighter captain of questionable character, then that's good enough for me. Understood? (leaves) 
REED: Understood. 
[Mess hall]
HOSHI: Is this seat taken? 
(The MACOs all stand.) 
HAYES: Ma'am. 
HOSHI: I'm Hoshi Sato. 
HAYES: We've familiarised ourselves with all the Bridge officers, Ensign. I'm Major Hayes, this is Sergeant Kemper, Corporals Romero and Chang. 
HOSHI: Military Assault Command. 
HAYES: Captain Archer wanted the best. 
HOSHI: You seem to have all gotten your space legs. 
KEMPER: Some of us are still visiting Doctor Phlox every morning. 
ROMERO: The wonders of modern medicine. 
HOSHI: What do you think of our doctor, Sergeant? I imagine you don't run into many Denobulans in Duluth, Minnesota. 
KEMPER: Actually, I'm stationed outside of Atlanta. No Denobulans, but we have our fair share of alien visitors. You must have gone pretty deep into our records. I haven't lived in Duluth since junior high school. 
HOSHI: You may have left Duluth, but you've still got plenty of Duluth left in your inflections. 
KEMPER: Excuse me? 
HAYES: Ensign Sato's a linguist, Kemper. You give her enough time, she could probably tell you what street you grew up on. 
CHANG: Do you have any idea where we're headed, Ensign? 
HOSHI: I'm sure Captain Archer will let us know when he has reason to. 
HAYES: Let's hope it's soon. The quicker you folks find these Xindi, the quicker we can get to work. We have a briefing in a few minutes. If you'll excuse you. 
[Corridor]
ARCHER: Just bay two? 
TUCKER: Yes sir. Cargo bays one and three seem unaffected. 
ARCHER: When did it start? 
TUCKER: About ten minutes ago. Ensign McFarlane got pretty banged up but he's going to be okay. 
ARCHER: You're sure it's not a problem with the grav-plating. 
TUCKER: Trust me, Captain. It's not the grav-plating. 
[Cargo Bay two]
(They enter to see the contents of the bay all firmly sitting on right hand wall.) 
TUCKER: Careful, sir. Stay close to the door. They're scaring me. 
(The floor shakes, then everything 'falls' to the left hand wall.) 
ARCHER: You're right. It's not the grav-plating. Any volatile material in those containers? 
TUCKER: I would have known by now. 
ARCHER: Seal it off. Let's hope this little anomaly doesn't last any longer than the others did. 
(Everything flies back to the right hand wall as they leave.) 
[Sickbay]
(Phlox is looking at a microscope view on desk monitor as T'Pol enters, wearing;
a red v-necked catsuit.) 
PHLOX: Come, look at this. The pigmentation is far more colourful that I would have suspected. 
T'POL: What are we looking at? 
PHLOX: Xindi epithelial cells, harvested from the corpse they found inside the crashed probe. 
T'POL: It looks more like scales. 
PHLOX: Precisely. When I'm finished constructing my physiometric profile I wouldn't be surprised to find he has reptilian characteristics. 
T'POL: You wanted to see me. 
PHLOX: Do you have any siblings? 
T'POL: No. 
PHLOX: Commander Tucker had one sister. She was killed in the attack. 
T'POL: I'm aware of that. 
PHLOX: He's having difficulty dealing with the loss. 
T'POL: It's to be expected. 
PHLOX: More specifically, it's affecting his sleep. I've been giving him sedatives, but I'd like to see him start tapering off. 
T'POL: I'm not sure I understand. 
PHLOX: I believe the Commander would be a fine candidate for Vulcan neuro-pressure. 
T'POL: I doubt the Commander would have the patience to sit in one place long enough to get through the first posture. 
PHLOX: I'm certain with your delicate guidance 
T'POL: Delicate is not a word I associate with Mister Tucker. The instruction of neuro-pressure is a very intimate act. 
PHLOX: And he's suffered a very intimate loss. He needs your help. 
T'POL: Have him come to my quarters. 
PHLOX: There's one little problem. Assuming that you'd agree to my request, I suggested all of this to Commander Tucker earlier today, and he was less than enthusiastic. 
T'POL: I don't understand. 
PHLOX: Perhaps if I could get him to go to your quarters, you might be able to convince him of the lasting benefits of Vulcan neuro-pressure. 
[Mining planet surface]
(The shuttlepod lands in a devastated looking place with a few wind turbines within the quarry.) 
REED: We should have worn EV suits. 
ARCHER: The Doctor said it was safe for short periods. 
REED: Safe? You call this safe? I've been in (cough) 
ARCHER: Try not to breathe. 
REED: Yes, sir. 
[Mine complex]
(Going down some stairs, they are greeted by two men wearing breathing masks and carrying guns.) 
ARCHER: I'm Captain Archer of the Starship Enterprise. We've come to see your 
GUARD: This way. 
(They follow through tunnels where various aliens are working.) 
[Mine Foreman's Office]
FOREMAN: Archer. 
ARCHER: I'm Jonathan Archer. This is Lieutenant Reed. 
FOREMAN: I've been told you might be able to make it worth my while if I were to arrange a certain introduction. 
ARCHER: Depends what you mean by worth your while. 
FOREMAN: I've always had a fondness for platinum, specifically in its liquified state. 
ARCHER: I'm afraid we don't carry precious metals on board. 
FOREMAN: Pity. 
ARCHER: I'm sure there's something else we could offer you. 
FOREMAN: (takes a gulp from his breather) I don't make a habit of allowing people to interrupt my workers, Xindi or otherwise. 
ARCHER: (quietly, to Reed) What about the antimatter relays? 
REED: Their linings are coated with a platinum-cobalt alloy. Trip could probably strip them down and separate the metals. 
ARCHER: How much platinum are we talking about? 
FOREMAN: Well, I'm a reasonable man. I'm sure you could part with, say, half a litre. 
ARCHER: I'd need to see this man, scan him, confirm that he's Xindi. 
FOREMAN: That won't be necessary. 
(He tosses a cloth to Archer, who opens it to see a severed finger.) 
ARCHER: Why would you do this? 
FOREMAN: Unfortunate accident. I expect to see you back tomorrow. 
(He hits a pipe with a rod and the door opens.) 
FOREMAN: Good day. 
[Tucker's dream - outside]
YOUNG TRIP: Elizabeth! Lizzie, you've got to get out of there! 
TUCKER: Elizabeth, please! Get out of there! 
(He watches helpless as the weapon bears down on her as she sits and waves at him. He wakes covered in sweat.) 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: A blood sample would have sufficed, some saliva. 
ARCHER: Is it Xindi? 
PHLOX: Yes, and no. 
ARCHER: I need something a little more concrete, Doctor. 
PHLOX: The genetic profile is nearly identical to the tissue samples taken from the corpse found on Earth. Their base pair sequencing is far closer than, say, humans and chimpanzees. Nearly identical, but not quite. 
ARCHER: Like humans and Neanderthals? 
PHLOX: A reasonable analogy. After analysing the remains of the Xindi corpse I was able to provide the computer with enough data to create this rendering. However, this humanoid is reptilian, that finger is not. It's covered with skin, not unlike yours or mine, but it's Xindi all the same. I wish I could be more helpful, Captain. 
TUCKER: (enters) Sir. 
ARCHER: How's it coming? 
TUCKER: We're going to end up stripping more than two hundred relays to get half a litre of liquified platinum, but you'll have it by this afternoon. 
ARCHER: Let me know when it's ready. You okay? 
TUCKER: I'm fine. 
(Archer leaves.) 
TUCKER: I've got to have something stronger to help me sleep tonight, Doc. 
PHLOX: Very well. Come by at around twenty two hundred hours. I'll see what I can do. 
TUCKER: Thanks. 
[Mine Foreman's Office]
TUCKER: You're aware this stuff is volatile above thirty degrees Celsius. 
FOREMAN: I'm familiar with the properties of liquid platinum. 
TUCKER: I've insulated the outer container. It should keep everything pretty stable. 
(Archer keeps hold of the container.) 
ARCHER: There's a little more than a half litre in here. 
FOREMAN: What exactly do you want with our Xindi friend? He's not very attractive, especially after his recent surgery. 
ARCHER: I have something to discuss with him. 
FOREMAN: And what might that be? 
ARCHER: I brought you what you asked for. Now let me see the Xindi. 
(The Foreman checks on a computer screen.) 
FOREMAN: His work group should be awake in about an hour's time. 
ARCHER: It took six of my men half the night to extract this platinum. I think you could wake him an hour early. 
[Mine Canteen]
(The foreman leads the way, Trip holding on to the case with the platinum in it.) 
TUCKER: Is trellium-D the only thing you mine here? 
FOREMAN: The only thing. Trellium-D. 
TUCKER: I'm not familiar with it. What's it used for? 
FOREMAN: Insulation. Mostly for interstellar vessels. What insulation does your ship use, Captain? 
ARCHER: Our outer hull is lined with duranium. 
FOREMAN: I imagine you must have a very large crew. 
ARCHER: And why would you imagine that? 
(A person is thrown to the floor in their midst, and the foreman holds out his hand for the platinum. Tucker hands over the case.) 
FOREMAN: Take your time. 
(He leaves with his henchmen. 
The prisoner has a scarf around his face, but he looks pretty human.
) 
KESSICK: Do I have you to thank for this? 
(He holds up his hand.) 
ARCHER: The foreman said it was an accident. 
KESSICK: Did he? What do you want. 
ARCHER: You're Xindi? 
KESSICK: Nine fingered Xindi. What do you want? 
ARCHER: Where's your homeworld? 
KESSICK: You came all the way to this hideous planet, bribed the foreman to see me, for what? Directions to my planet? I find that hard to believe. 
ARCHER: We have important business with your people. 
KESSICK: But you don't know where to find them. 
(Kessick pulls off the scarf. He has slight forehead ridges and knobbly bits near the cheekbones.) 
KESSICK: Well, if you want information, you're going to have to help me escape from this place. 
ARCHER: What do you mean, escape? 
KESSICK: Do these look like volunteers? We're captives, slaves! 
ARCHER: A simple set of coordinates, that's all I want. I'm prepared to pay you. 
KESSICK: The only payment I'm interested in is my freedom. If you can't provide me with that, stop wasting my time. 
TUCKER: I don't know what you're doing in this place and I don't particularly care, but we didn't come here to stage a prison break so why don't you just give us the co-ordinates and we'll all stop wasting each other's kind. 
KESSICK: Not until you get me off this planet. 
TUCKER: You know, I'm not sure why, but I'm just itching to kick the hell out of you. 
ARCHER: Trip, take it easy. (communicator chirps) Archer here. 
T'POL [OC]: Captain. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: There are three warships approaching at warp. Their hull alloys match the mining towers on the surface. 
[Mine Canteen]
ARCHER: How long before they get here? 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Two hours, sir. 
ARCHER [OC]: Go to Tactical Alert. We're heading back to the shuttlepod. 
T'POL: Understood. 
[Mine Canteen]
KESSICK: Shuttlepod? You have a starship in orbit? You've made it so easy for them. Usually they have to go out and find ships to replenish their labour force. (Archer and Tucker find the door is now locked) You flew right into their trap. 
ARCHER: Archer to Enterprise. Enterprise, respond. (static) 
KESSICK: You might consider waiting for your colleagues to rescue you, but it sounds like they're about to become quite busy. If you have a shuttlepod on the surface I can get you to it, but you'll have to take me with you. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: There's an audio message coming in from the mine foreman. 
T'POL: This is Enterprise. 
FOREMAN [OC]: I'm afraid your Captain 
[Mine Foreman's Office]
FOREMAN: And his associate are going to be slightly delayed. We have three cargo vessels approaching, and we've had 
[Bridge]
FOREMAN [OC]: To begin de-ionising our landing decks. 
T'POL: How long a delay? 
[Mine Foreman's Office]
FOREMAN: No more than an hour. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: We've detected your cargo ships. They're heavily armed. 
[Mine Foreman's Office]
FOREMAN: Trellium-D is a highly 
[Bridge]
FOREMAN [OC]: Valued substance, and I'm certain you've noticed that this is not one of the friendlier regions of space. 
T'POL: Can I talk to Captain Archer? 
[Mine Foreman's Office]
FOREMAN: Not at the moment. He requested to speak to a miner who resides on level twenty two. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: I spoke with him a few minutes ago. 
FOREMAN [OC]: The de-ionising process prevents us with communicating with the lower levels. I'll have him 
[Mine Foreman's Office]
FOREMAN: contact you as soon as he returns. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Keep trying to reach the Captain. 
REED: Something doesn't smell right. 
T'POL: I want you to come up with a plan to recover the Captain and Commander Tucker. Have it in place in one hour. Get Major Hayes to help you. 
[Mining complex sewage system]
ARCHER: Sewage takes on a whole new meaning when it comes from a dozen different species. 
KESSICK: Thirty one, to be exact. Help me with this. There's a lever below your knees. Pull it up. 
(Archer helps turn the wheel as Trip reaches down for the lever. The access door opens.) 
KESSICK: Plasma duct thirteen hasn't been used since I've been here. 
TUCKER: Why is there a hatch here? 
KESSICK: There's one every eight levels. 
ARCHER: What are you doing? 
KESSICK: (working another lever) Opening the emergency baffle up there. It's a steel plate that locks into place during maintenance cycles. Follow me. 
(He leads them up the ladder, Archer following, then Tucker in the rear.) 
[Armoury]
HAYES: Looks a little close to the mine, but I suppose it'll be all right. 
REED: The ionised particles will cover our descent. It'll be all right. 
(T'Pol enters.) 
REED: Have you heard from the Captain? 
T'POL: Not yet. The foreman isn't responding to our hails. 
REED: The ships? 
T'POL: Less than an hour away. Are you ready? 
REED: They're armed to the teeth down there, but it is do-able. We only have one bone of contention. The Major here thinks my security team is far to valuable to bring down and put in the line of fire. He wants to take his men. 
HAYES: It's a simple matter of priorities. If those warships get here before we return from the surface, you could find yourselves dealing with a boarding party. You'd be in far better hands with a security force who knows Enterprise inside and out. 
REED: I plan to have my men back on board with the Captain and Trip long before those ships arrive. 
HAYES: With all due respect, sir, we can't be certain of that. 
T'POL: The decision is yours, Lieutenant, but I agree with Major Hayes. Your team may not be back in time. 
REED: Select six of your men and meet me in launch bay one. I'll be commanding the mission. 
HAYES: Very good, sir. 
(Hayes leaves.) 
REED: Coming from a military family, I've seen men like Hayes all my life. 
T'POL: Lieutenant? 
REED: That had nothing to do with who knows Enterprise inside and out. It had to do with who the Major thinks is more capable of carrying out this rescue. 
[Mine Foreman's office]
GUARD: They're gone, all three of them. 
FOREMAN: That's impossible. 
GUARD: We've searched the entire cell perimeter. 
FOREMAN: Post guards at their landing craft. If they get back to their starship I'll lose nearly a hundred new workers. 
[Plasma duct thirteen]
ARCHER: If this leads to the surface why didn't you use it before? 
KESSICK: The residue in the atmosphere is at least thirty times more toxic than it is down here. This is the first time I've had the luxury of a ship waiting for me. 
[Shuttlepod]
REED: The lower levels are hyper-saturated with ionised particles, so you'll have to get within a hundred metres to pick up their biosigns. 
TRAVIS: We've got less than a half an hour to do it. 
[Mine Foreman's office]
(The Foreman points to a graphic display.) 
FOREMAN: Duct thirteen. They've opened two emergency baffles. 
GUARD: They're nearly to the surface. We should destroy their landing pod. 
FOREMAN: No, too valuable. How long would it take to redirect the plasma flow into that conduit? 
GUARD: I'll see to it. 
[Plasma duct thirteen]
KESSICK: You've risked your lives to learn where my homeworld is, because you say you have important business with my people? Which species? Have you ever even met a Xindi before today? 
ARCHER: One, and he didn't look very much like you. 
KESSICK: Not all of them do. There are five distinct species of Xindi, and five distinct opinions on which one is dominant. 
(Something clangs in the duct.) 
TUCKER: What was that? 
(Another clang.) 
ARCHER: That sounded an awful lot like those emergency baffles we opened. 
TUCKER: Why would they open the rest? They'll just help us escape 
ARCHER: I thought you said this duct isn't used anymore. 
KESSICK: It isn't. They've obviously re-routed the plasma. 
ARCHER: How far up to the next maintenance hatch? How far? 
KESSICK: I don't know. 
TUCKER: I think the safest bet is to head back down to the last one. 
ARCHER: I think you're right. 
KESSICK: That's where the plasma's coming from! We should go up. 
ARCHER: Suit yourself. 
(He starts down.) 
KESSICK: It's too late. We'll be killed. 
TUCKER: Shut up. Just shut up. 
ARCHER: We're going to have to pick up the pace, gentleman. 
(A red glow is visible in the duct. They slide down.) 
[Passageway]
TUCKER: Wait a minute! 
KESSICK: Get out of my way. 
TUCKER: What the hell? 
(They get to safety and shut the hatch just in time.) 
TUCKER: You stupid son of a bitch. I ought to open this hatch and throw you down into 
(He sees the guards waiting for them.) 
KESSICK: They forced me to come with them. They said they'd kill me if I didn't. Just now, this one, he tried to throw me into the plasma. Said they didn't need me any more. Thank you, thank you. If you hadn't been waiting here I don't know what I 
(The guard knocks him down.) 
GUARD: Pick him up. 
[Mine complex]
FOREMAN: I'd have preferred having you join your crewmembers as new additions to my workforce, but you've turned out to be more trouble than you're worth. Select a detail. Take them to the surface. Shoot all three of them. 
(Rnter the MACOs, sliding down ropes and shooting. There's a tussle as Archer and Tucker get guns from prone guards and join in the battle. Kessick crawls away and hides under the stairs.) 
ARCHER: You okay? 
KEMPER: Yes, sir. 
(Corporal Cole gives a masterclass in using nightstick to disarm and render an assailant helpless.) 
TUCKER: Nice shot. 
(There's an explosion.) 
REED: Captain! It took a little doing, sir, but we got through the outer hatch. 
(Archer;grabs Kessick.) 
ARCHER: Where the hell do you think you're going? 
KESSICK: You promised to take me away from here. 
TUCKER: That was before your little performance back there. 
KESSICK: No, please, you have to help me! 
ARCHER: You had your chance. 
KESSICK: The coordinates of my homeworld. If you want them you'll have to take me with you. 
ARCHER: You're lying. 
KESSICK: No, I promise you. 
[Planet surface]
REED: Reed to Mayweather. 
TRAVIS [OC]: Go ahead. 
REED: We've got them. Lock onto my location and set down. 
TRAVIS [OC]: Understood. 
(There's weapons fire coming from the dark. Kessick is shot in the back.) 
HAYES: Fayette, go. 
(The MACO sets up his night scope and shoots the Foreman between the eyes. The second shuttlepod appears out of the gloom.) 
TUCKER: Captain? 
(Archer checks Kessick, then they carry him off to the second pod.) 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: Both shuttlepods have left the surface. 
T'POL: Is everybody aboard? 
HOSHI: Everybody plus one. 
T'POL: The warships? 
HOSHI: Still at warp four. ETA approximately seven minutes. 
T'POL: Tell the pods to dock simultaneously. Prepare to go to maximum warp. 
Captain's Starlog, supplemental. The three alien warships followed Enterprise for nearly an hour, but couldn't keep up with us. I guess they'll have to look elsewhere for new additions to their labour force. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Come in. 
PHLOX: I'm terribly sorry, Captain, but there was nothing I could do. I realise how important it would have been to have a Xindi to help us. 
ARCHER: He wasn't a particularly helpful Xindi, Doctor. 
PHLOX: You'd be surprised. It was extremely difficult and painful for him to speak, but he managed to dictate this to me before he died. He said you'd know what it meant. 
ARCHER: I'll be damned. They're the coordinates. 
[Corridor]
TUCKER: I must have been in the shower for two hours and I still had that crap in my hair and under my nails. 
REED: We cleared bioscan, that's all that matters. 
TUCKER: Yeah. The two new guys that got hurt, are they okay? 
REED: The Doctor's got them back in their quarters already. 
TUCKER: You've got to admit, their team did a pretty impressive job down there. Nothing your guys couldn't have done just as well. 
REED: I'm not so sure about that. See you in the morning. 
TUCKER: All right. 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: How are you feeling, Commander? 
TUCKER: Tired. You said you'd give me something to sleep? 
PHLOX: Very well. 
(Phlox injects him.) 
PHLOX: If you wouldn't mind, Commander. I promised T'Pol I'd take these bioscans to her quarters, but I still have quite a bit of work to do here. 
TUCKER: No problem, Doc. Thanks. 
(Tucker leaves.) 
PHLOX: Sickbay to T'Pol. 
T'POL [OC]: Yes, Doctor. 
PHLOX: Commander Tucker is on his way to your quarters. He believes I just gave him a sedative, but it was only a placebo. He's had a rather difficult day. I believe you have your work cut out for you. 
[T'Pol's quarters]
TUCKER: Sorry to drop by so late, but Phlox said you were expecting this. 
T'POL: Thank you. Please, sit down. 
TUCKER: I don't think I'd be very good company right now. Anyway, I still have a few more showers to take before I get all this trellium-D off me. 
T'POL: Would you like a cup of tea? 
TUCKER: Thanks, but it might keep me up. The Doctor just gave me a sedative. 
T'POL: You are having trouble sleeping as well. 
TUCKER: I never would have pegged you for an insomniac. 
T'POL: I believe the Expanse has been disrupting my REM patterns. 
TUCKER: Probably nothing a good hypospray couldn't cure. 
T'POL: Vulcan science teaches us to prompt our bodies to create their own medicines. 
TUCKER: So why are you still having trouble sleeping? 
T'POL: The neural nodes that need to be stimulated are difficult to reach. Perhaps you could help me. 
(She slips off her dressing gown to reveal a pair of pajamas that don't meet in the middle.) 
TUCKER: I don't really know if I can 
T'POL: Three centimetres on either side of the fifth vertebrae. 
(Tucker puts his hands on her back as she takes off her top.) 
T'POL: You can apply considerable pressure. 
TUCKER: I'm not sure which of these is 
T'POL: Right there. 
TUCKER: Right here? 
T'POL: A little closer together. Harder. Harder. 
TUCKER: If I push any harder I'll knock you over. 
T'POL: Just like that. Please continue. Ahhh. That was far more effective than a hypospray. 
(Tucker pats her leg as she puts her top back on.) 
TUCKER: Glad to be of assistance. 
T'POL: It would be only fair for me to return the favour. Please, disrobe. 
TUCKER: I'm really flattered, Sub-Commander, and don't think under different circumstances I wouldn't jump at the chance 
T'POL: Are you implying I'm making sexual advances? 
TUCKER: No. No, no, no, not at all. I, I was just. You see, the Doctor gave me this sedative and I think it's starting to work. 
T'POL: The Doctor injected you with a placebo. He sent you here because he wanted me to persuade you to try Vulcan neuro-pressure. As I predicted, it was a pointless exercise. 
TUCKER: Why didn't he just ask me? 
T'POL: He did. You refused. 
TUCKER: Oh, so this whole thing was just a set up. 
T'POL: The Doctor knows how intransigent you can be. 
TUCKER: Intransigent! 
T'POL: Unwilling to compromise. 
TUCKER: I know what it means, but it just so happens it's not true. I'm as willing to compromise as anyone else. 
T'POL: Then take off your shirt. 
(He does, and they begin.) 
[Bridge]
(There's a bright dot in the middle of the viewscreen, just like when they approached Earth.) 
TRAVIS: Sir, we're approaching the coordinates. 
ARCHER: Tactical Alert. Stand by weapons. Any indications that we're being scanned? 
REED: No, sir. No vessels, no signs of technology, nothing. 
ARCHER: How many inhabited planets? 
T'POL: I'm not detecting any planets, inhabited or otherwise. 
ARCHER: Son of a bitch lied to us. 
TUCKER: Phlox said the Xindi used his dying breath to give us these coordinates. Why would he lie? 
TRAVIS: Sir, I'm picking up a debris field. 
ARCHER: A ship? 
TRAVIS: It's a lot bigger than that. 
ARCHER: Put it up. 
T'POL: It's nearly eighty million kilometres long. It was a planet. 
ARCHER: Move us in closer. 
(They fly in amongst the lumps of rock.) 
ARCHER: How long ago did this happen? 
T'POL: Judging by the field dispersion, approximately one hundred and twenty years. 
TUCKER: I'm pretty sure there was a population here, Captain. I'm picking up refined metals and traces of alloys. Some of them match the hull of the Xindi probe. 
ARCHER: They're building a weapon, planning to annihilate Earth because they think we're going to destroy their world in four hundred years. How is that possible if their world doesn't exist anymore, hasn't existed for decades. 
T'POL: We know the probe that attacked Earth was built somewhere in this Expanse, and it was built recently. It's logical to assume the new weapon is being developed at the same location. 
TUCKER: But, if it's not here 
ARCHER: Prepare to go to warp four. 
TRAVIS: What course, sir? 
ARCHER: Deeper into the Expanse. 
REED: Long range sensors are showing increasing numbers of spatial distortions. 
ARCHER: You heard me, Travis. 
[Xindi Council]
REPTILIAN: They scanned the debris and left nearly three hours ago. 
HUMANOID: Their heading? 
REPTILIAN: Toward the Orassin distortion fields. 
ARBOREAL: Then it's unlikely they'll survive. 
INSECTOID: We can't assume that. I'm sending vessels to destroy them. 
DEGRA: If they are the first wave of an invasion it would be best for us to remain hidden. Let them keep searching. 
AQUATIC: He's correct. They won't find what they're looking for. 
INSECTOID: Finish the weapon quickly, or I'll destroy the Earth ship whether this Council approves or not. 

