Episode Number: 37
The Enterprise Transcripts - Precious Cargo
Precious Cargo
Mission Date: Sep 12, 2152 
Original Airdate: 11 Dec, 2002
[Tucker's quarters]
(Tucker has his feet up on his desk and is playing a harmonica, when he notices that they have just dropped out of warp. He gets up and sees a tug approaching, hauling two cargo pods almost as Enterprise hersel.f) 
ARCHER [OC]: Archer to Commander Tucker. 
TUCKER: Go ahead. 
ARCHER [OC]: I know you're off duty, but we've got visitors. 
TUCKER: I can see that. 
ARCHER [OC]: Are you up for a little repair work? 
TUCKER: Sir? 
ARCHER [OC]: Meet me at Docking Port two. 
TUCKER: On my way. 
[Docking Port two]
TUCKER: Anything serious? 
ARCHER: They said they were having trouble with one of their life support systems. 
TUCKER: Who's they? 
T'POL: Retellian cargo pilots. The seal is secure. 
(The hatches are opened and Archer steps through to shake hands. The visitors have flat ends to their noses.) 
ARCHER: Welcome aboard. 
GOFF: Gracious of you to help us, Captain. We were beginning to think our distress call would never be answered. 
ARCHER: This is Sub-Commander T'Pol and my Chief Engineer, Commander Tucker. 
PLINN: Our salvation. 
TUCKER: The Captain said something about life support. 
GOFF: We were hired to return a young woman to her home world. A few days ago her stasis pod began to malfunction. 
ARCHER: Stasis? Is she injured? 
GOFF: No, no. She's a passenger, but our ship is designed to haul cargo, not people and it's a very long journey. Putting her in suspended animation was our only choice. 
PLINN: We have another five months ahead of us. If she wakes up there won't be enough food, air to breathe. If we're forced to abort the mission we won't get paid. 
T'POL: Commander Tucker is resourceful. I'm sure he'll be able to assist you. 
TUCKER: Mind if I have a look? 
PLINN: Please. 
(He leaves with Tucker.) 
GOFF: You've been very accommodating. If it's not too much trouble I'd like to make another request. It's been a long time since we've enjoyed the luxury of a bath. 
ARCHER: I understand. T'Pol will show you to guest quarters. When you're done, I'll have my chef prepare you a meal. 
[Retellian cargo hold]
(Lots of drooping tubing, netting and general mess, and one frost encrusted stasis pod.) 
PLINN: This regulates power flow to the biopod. 
TUCKER: Looks very creative. 
PLINN: These relays are from an old Ardanan shuttle. They weren't designed to carry this much current. 
TUCKER: I've got some EPS conduits that might do the trick. 
(He takes a look at the pod's monitor.) 
TUCKER: This would be a lot easier if I could read your language. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask our Communications Officer to give me a hand. 
PLINN: By all means. 
(Tucker wipes some frost off the pod and gazes at the lovely face of an olive-skinned woman with little freckles around the temples.) 
PLINN: Is there a problem? 
TUCKER: No. No, no problem. I'm going to need some tools from Enterprise. With a little luck, Sleeping Beauty here will never know there was a problem. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Come in. 
(Goff enters, looking much pinker than previously.) 
GOFF: I hope I didn't deplete your water supply. 
ARCHER: I'm sure we'll manage. Please. (Goff sits) T'Pol tells me your vessel can't do much better than warp two. 
GOFF: Warp two point two. 
ARCHER: I've been making some calculations. If I'm not mistaken, at warp four point five Enterprise can have you at your destination in less than four days. 
GOFF: That's a generous offer, but I've already inconvenienced you far too much. 
ARCHER: It's no inconvenience. We're out here to meet new people. You're heading toward an inhabited world we've never seen. First contacts tend to go more smoothly when a familiar face is making the introductions. 
GOFF: I'm sure you'll do fine on your own. 
ARCHER: You could dock in our launch bay. You wouldn't have to worry about that stasis pod. We have plenty of room for you and your passenger. 
GOFF: It's not that simple, Captain. This has all been carefully prearranged. Her family's not expecting her for another five months. They're not even on her home world at the moment. But I will accept your offer of a meal, if it's not too late. 
[Retellian cargo bay]
HOSHI: Commander? Hello? 
(Tucker pops up from under the flooring.) 
TUCKER: Is that the translation? 
HOSHI: Give or take an adverb. 
TUCKER: Thanks. 
(Hoshi looks at the woman.) 
HOSHI: At least you don't have to work alone. 
TUCKER: Hell of a way to travel, isn't it? 
HOSHI: Who is she? Any idea? 
TUCKER: I asked Plinn but he doesn't seem to know too much about her. He said something about studying medicine in a research colony. 
HOSHI: A doctor? 
TUCKER: I suppose so. She must have a real passion for it if she's willing to go through all this. Shame we'll never get to meet her. 
HOSHI: It's not polite to stare, Commander. 
TUCKER: What's that supposed to mean? 
HOSHI: Let me know if you have any problems with that translation. 
TUCKER: I wasn't staring. 
(Hoshi leaves, then Tucker hears a thumping sound.) 
TUCKER: Hoshi? 
(It's coming from the stasis pod. The passenger has woken up and is fighting to get out.) 
TUCKER: Are you all right? 
[Captain's mess]
(Archer, T'Pol, Plinn and Goff are eating when Goff's pager goes off.) 
ARCHER: Problem? 
GOFF: The stasis pod. 
T'POL: What about it? 
GOFF: It's malfunctioning. If you'll excuse me, Captain. 
(He gets up.) 
T'POL: I'll show you to the docking port. 
GOFF: I know the way.; 
[Retellian cargo bay]
(The woman is shouting and thumping at the pod lid as Trip tries to crowbar it open. Goff grabs his arm.) 
GOFF: What are you doing? 
TUCKER: Help me open this thing! 
GOFF: We can't bring her out of stasis. 
TUCKER: She's suffocating! 
(Goff goes to the control module.) 
TUCKER: The release is jammed. Don't bother. 
(Finally he hauls the lid open, and we see she has her wrists tied.) 
TUCKER: I'm sorry about this, but the O2 recycler went offline. 
KAITAAMA: Dulsha tot! 
TUCKER: You're going to be all right. 
KAITAAMA: Kosh vos! 
(Goss hits Tucker with the crowbar.) 
[Captain's mess]
{Plinn is lifting a fork full of spaghetti to his mouth when his pager goes off.) 
PLINN: Yes? 
GOSS [OC]: There's a minor problem. I'm going to need your assistance. 
PLINN: What kind of problem? 
GOSS [OC]: The malfunction is more complicated than I expected. 
PLINN: I'll be there in a moment. I don't mean to be rude. 
(Plinn dashes out.) 
ARCHER: Not at all. Archer to Commander Tucker. Trip, can you hear me? (changes channel) Archer to Lieutenant Reed. 
[Corridor]
REED: Mister Plinn? 
PLINN: (still walking) That's right. 
(Reed walks alongside with a security man at the rear.) 
REED: Lieutenant Reed. The Captain asked me to escort you back to your ship. 
PLINN: That won't be necessary. 
REED: I'm afraid I'm under orders. 
PLINN: Have I done something wrong? 
REED: It's just a precaution. 
PLINN: I never realised leaving the Captain's table would cause so much concern. 
(As they approach the docking port, Goss sees Plinn under escort and fires a weapon at the group. The three dive for cover, then Goss dashes back inside his ship and seals his airlock. The freighter's engines power up as Archer and T'Pol arrive.) 
REED: He's trying to break loose. 
ARCHER: Secure the docking clamps. 
(But the big ship rips away from Enterprise, and they go in pursuit.) 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Report. 
TRAVIS: He hasn't gotten far at warp two, sir. 
ARCHER: Hail him. 
HOSHI: No response. 
ARCHER: Phase cannons. Target his engines. 
REED: Direct hit to the port nacelle. He's dropping out of warp. 
ARCHER: Bring us into grappling range. Hail him again. 
TRAVIS: Captain. 
(A cloud of something from the freighter covers the viewscreen.) 
ARCHER: T'Pol? 
T'POL: Dilithium hydroxls. Ionised pyrosulfates. 
TRAVIS: He's moving off. 
ARCHER: Stay with him. 
(The freighter goes to warp.) 
ARCHER: I thought you took out one of his nacelles? 
REED: So did I. 
TRAVIS: Our warp drive won't engage. 
REED: That cloud he released, it got into the plasma vents. They'll have to be purged. 
TRAVIS: He's moving out of sensor range. I've lost him. 
[Retellian cargo hold]
(Tucker awakes with a sore head only to be hit again by the woman.) 
KAITAAMA: Tuvat at. 
TUCKER: What the hell did you do that for? 
KAITAAMA: Tuvat at. 
TUCKER: Hold on. Hold on. I'm not working with them. 
KAITAAMA: Luvasta eeva. Destas. 
TUCKER: Calm down. I'm not going to hurt you. I'm, I'm from a starship called Enterprise. Enterprise. Now put that thing down and I'll untie you. Your hands, I'll free your hands. Let me help you. 
KAITAAMA: Has trava dukla. 
(Goss burst in with his gun, and Tucker stands between him and Kaitaama.) 
TUCKER: What the hell's going on? 
GOSS: Is it repaired? 
TUCKER: What? 
GOSS: The stasis pod. 
TUCKER: Where's Captain Archer? 
GOSS: Your ship is a long way from here. 
KAITAAMA: Slovasa toraya. 
GOSS: Repair the pod so we can put her back in stasis. 
TUCKER: It's going to take a few hours. 
GOSS: Work quickly. 
(Goss leaves.) 
(Tucker unties Kaitaama's hands) 
KAITAAMA: Am sotey. 
TUCKER: You're welcome? 
KAITAAMA: Tule bas? 
TUCKER: Have you seen a little device? It's about this big, has a keypad on it. It's my Universal Translator. It'll help us understand each other. 
(She finds it.)
KAITAAMA: Has nos? 
TUCKER: That's it. It's just so we can talk. 
(She hands it over.) 
TUCKER: I need you to say something. You got to keep talking. 
KAITAAMA: Votni vay, atayun ponas. 
TUCKER: A little more. 
KAITAAMA: Akasa jorat. Foraya nuratay. fegasa ana a'hanjura. 
TUCKER: Can you understand me? 
KAITAAMA: Serotta jho. 
TUCKER: Where's Hoshi when you need her? 
KAITAAMA: Who is Hoshi? 
TUCKER: That's better. Would you mind telling me what's going on here? 
KAITAAMA: How long have I been in stasis? 
TUCKER: You'd have to ask them. 
(He gets out his communicator.) 
TUCKER: Commander Tucker to Enterprise. Enterprise, do you hear me? 
KAITAAMA: You are an officer? 
TUCKER: Chief Engineer. Feels like we've gone to warp. 
KAITAAMA: Explain yourself. What do you know about my abductors? 
TUCKER: We thought they were cargo pilots. They claimed you were their passenger. 
KAITAAMA: I am their prisoner. I was returning from a diplomatic mission when they attacked my transport, murdered my guards. You don't know who I am, do you? 
TUCKER: Should I? 
KAITAAMA: My family is known on hundreds of worlds. 
TUCKER: Well, I'm afraid Earth isn't one of them. So I take it you're not a doctor. 
KAITAAMA: I am First Monarch of the Sovereign Dynasty of Krios Prime. 
TUCKER: Oh. Charles Tucker the third. Please to meet you. So what do these guys want? 
KAITAAMA: Ransom. No doubt they'll demand a high price for my safe return. 
TUCKER: Listen, my Captain'll be looking for me. All we have to do is get off this ship and let him know where we are. 
KAITAAMA: And how do you propose we do that? 
TUCKER: I saw a shuttlebay earlier. There were a couple of escape pods. 
KAITAAMA: You're not going anywhere. 
TUCKER: I beg your pardon? 
KAITAAMA: We'll remain here until they contact the Sovereign Guard. Once the ransom has been paid, we'll be released. 
TUCKER: Well, if it's all the same to you I'd rather take my chances in open space. 
KAITAAMA: It's too dangerous. If you leave, it would provoke them. 
(Tucker crouches by a hatch.) 
TUCKER: If I remember right this access tube leads to a junction near the shuttlebay. 
KAITAAMA: You are not to leave this chamber. 
TUCKER: With all due respect, I'm not one of your subjects. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: He's your partner. You must have some idea where he's going. 
PLINN: Obviously, I'm his victim as well. Why else would he leave me here? 
T'POL: Where were you taking your passenger? 
PLINN: Goff had the coordinates. 
ARCHER: You don't even know what system you were heading for? 
PLINN: It wasn't my responsibility. He was piloting the ship, not me. I spent most of my time looking after the cargo. Believe me, Captain I'm as eager to find my partner as you are. 
ARCHER: If that's true, then we could work together to track him down. 
PLINN: I don't see how. 
ARCHER: We've got pretty good long range sensors, but your ship could be anywhere within a half dozen light years. It'd be a lot easier if we knew your warp frequency. 
PLINN: Well, I'm afraid I can't help you with that. I know very little about warp engines. 
ARCHER: Take him back to Docking Port Two. Put him in the airlock and post a security detail. 
PLINN: I'm telling you the truth! 
ARCHER: We'll keep the outer hatch unlocked. If you decide to leave, you know the way out. 
[Retellian cargo bay]
(Tucker is working to unlock a hatch while the Monarch paces.) 
TUCKER: Could you hand me that circuit probe? The one with the green handle? 
(He has to get it himself.) 
TUCKER: You must be one hell of a diplomat. 
KAITAAMA: Is your entire species so ill-mannered? 
TUCKER: No, just me. 
KAITAAMA: You know, if you were thinking rationally you'd be repairing that stasis pod. He did threaten to kill you. 
TUCKER: That's precisely why I'm getting out of here. I really doubt they're going to keep me around once I fix their problem. You know, I realise someone in your position isn't used to taking advice from a guy like me, but I strongly suggest you come along. 
KAITAAMA: He'd never harm me. I'm too valuable to them. 
TUCKER: I've been involved in a few hostage situations. They rarely turn out the way you expect. 
KAITAAMA: You're correct, Mister Tucker. I don't take advice from people like you. 
TUCKER: You know, that stasis pod won't fix itself. Chances are you're going to spend the next five months tied up in this grimy little cargo hold. Not exactly my idea of a royal voyage. 
KAITAAMA: I'll be fine. 
TUCKER: When I get back to Enterprise I'll make sure we get a message to your homeworld. Krios? 
KAITAAMA: Krios Prime. 
TUCKER: Take care. 
KAITAAMA: Once you launch an escape pod what makes you think they won't destroy it? 
TUCKER: I'm going to reroute their internal sensors. I'll be a million kilometres away before they know I'm gone. I'm much better company. 
[Crawlspace]
KAITAAMA: How much farther? 
TUCKER: Just a few more metres. 
KAITAAMA: Are you sure this is the right direction? 
TUCKER: Keep your voice down. What am I supposed to call you, anyway? First Monarch? Your Highness? 
KAITAAMA: Kaitaama. 
TUCKER: What is that? Some kind of a title? 
KAITAAMA: It's my name. 
(Tucker stops to do something to a panel's interior.) 
KAITAAMA: What are you doing? 
TUCKER: These lead to internal sensors. 
(He finishes what he's doing, then removes a grid further along and jumps down to the floor. She puts her head out and hesitates.) 
TUCKER: We don't have all day. 
(Helps her down and then opens an escape pod hatch.) 
KAITAAMA: This is meant for one person. 
TUCKER: We'll have to make do. Unless you know how to fly one of these things. 
(She tries to get in, but her long dress hampers her movements so she rips it off at mid-thigh.) 
[Escape pod]
(Trip powers it up and launches successfully. The ride gets rather bumpy.) 
KAITAAMA: What was that? 
TUCKER: We're crossing the subspace threshold. 
(The juddering stops.) 
TUCKER: That wasn't so bad. 
KAITAAMA: What do you propose we do next? 
TUCKER: To be honest, I hadn't really thought about it. 
KAITAAMA: I assumed you had a plan. 
TUCKER: I was only joking. They do have a sense of humour where you come from? 
KAITAAMA: Among the commoners. Only joking. 
TUCKER: It's only a matter of time before they realise we're gone. No doubt they'll come about and look for us. We need a place to hide. 
KAITAAMA: Where? 
TUCKER: If I'm translating this right, there's a system about ninety million kilometres from here. We should be able to reach it in a day or so. 
KAITAAMA: What makes you think any of those planets are habitable? 
TUCKER: Only one way to find out. Permission to set a course, your Sovereignty? 
KAITAAMA: Proceed. 
(Later, Trip is trying to get the pod controls sorted out.) 
TUCKER: Look, this would be a whole lot easier if you'd stop moving around. 
KAITAAMA: You're touching me. 
TUCKER: I'm afraid I don't have much choice. 
KAITAAMA: It's inappropriate to touch the First Monarch. 
TUCKER: You're welcome to step outside until I'm done. Excuse me. 
(He reaches across to a panel above her head.) 
TUCKER: There we go. Landing thrusters, No, wait, they're stabilisers. 
KAITAAMA: You have no idea how to control this vehicle. 
TUCKER: I'm working on it. 
KAITAAMA: Even if we do find a breathable atmosphere and you manage to land without killing us, what will we do about food? Water? There could be hostile lifeforms on the surface. How will we protect ourselves? 
TUCKER: Look, I've got less than twenty four hours to figure out how to scan a star system and programme a descent sequence in a language I don't understand, and I'm not going to get it done with you interrupting me every five seconds. So I'd appreciate it if you'd keep quiet until I'm finished. Now, lift your butt. 
KAITAAMA: My what? 
TUCKER: Your behind, your rear end. I haven't checked that panel yet. 
(He opens a box to see a nice lever with a big red knob on it.) 
KAITAAMA: Quickly. 
TUCKER: You know, you were a lot more pleasant in stasis. 
(He leans right across her.) 
TUCKER: I think I found the landing thrusters. I understand how difficult this must be for someone of your upbringing, but we could be stuck out here for awhile. We should find a way to get along. I'm willing to give it a try if you are. 
KAITAAMA: My hand. You're sitting on my hand. I'll try. 
[Enterprise]
(It's semi dark, and there appears to be just one table and chair here. Reed and a guard enter with Plinn.) 
REED: The prisoner, sir, as ordered. 
ARCHER: Thank you. 
REED: Will there be anything else, Captain? 
ARCHER: Not right now, Lieutenant. Dismissed. 
(Reed and the guard leave.)
ARCHER: Have a seat. 
PLINN: Why have I been brought here? 
ARCHER: Sit down. 
(Plinn sits on the lone chair.) 
PLINN: I already told you everything I know. 
ARCHER: We're not here to talk about your partner. We're here to talk about you. 
PLINN: What about me? 
ARCHER: You're facing some very serious charges, Mister Plinn. Where we come from criminals are held accountable for their actions. If they're found guilty, they're punished. This is where your tribunal is going to take place. 
PLINN: Tribunal? 
(Plinn leaps to his feet.) 
PLINN: I am not subject to your laws. 
ARCHER: That's not for me to decide. 
(Plinn sits again.) 
ARCHER: Starfleet asked the Vulcan High Command to assign a judicial administrator to Enterprise. Someone who wouldn't be swayed by human emotion. Someone objective, logical. From what I understand, Sub-commander T'Pol has already reviewed the evidence. This tribunal is nothing more than a formality. I thought you should be prepared. Her punishments can be severe. 
PLINN: How severe? 
ARCHER: If you're late for your shift you might receive a beating. But for more grievous offenses, dereliction of duty, conduct unbecoming an officer. We started out with eighty three crewmen on board. We're down to seventy six. 
PLINN: But I haven't done anything wrong. 
ARCHER: Accessory to kidnapping, resisting arrest, obstruction of an investigation, causing damage to a Starfleet vessel. 
PLINN: What damage? 
ARCHER: When your partner fled he released a cloud of dilithium hydroxls that clogged our plasma vents. 
PLINN: I had nothing to do with that. 
ARCHER: As I said, I'm not the one you have to convince. 
(The door bell chimes and the door opens. Archer gestures Plinn to stand and then bows from the waist.) 
ARCHER: Sub-commander. 
(T'Pol is wearing V'Lar's costume from Fallen Hero, or something very similar.) 
T'POL: Has the accused been informed of the charges? 
ARCHER: Yes, ma'am. 
T'POL: How much do you weigh? 
PLINN: What? 
T'POL: Your weight. 
PLINN: Seventy two kilograms. 
T'POL: Height? 
PLINN: One point eight metres. Why are you asking these questions? 
T'POL: Does your culture observe any postmortem rituals? 
PLINN: This is not fair. I demand to speak with someone from my government. 
ARCHER: He's got a point. We've never tried an alien before. Maybe we should contact the High Command.;
T'POL: They've granted me complete autonomy in these matters. If I had to consult my superiors every time I made a ruling it would defeat my purpose here. We'll convene at eighteen hundred hours. 
ARCHER: As you wish. 
(T'Pol sweeps out of the room as the pair bow.) 
PLINN: You can't allow this. 
ARCHER: There's nothing I can do. 
PLINN: But you're the Captain. 
ARCHER: She owes me a few favours. I can't promise anything but I, I'd be willing to ask for leniency. Of course, I'd want something in return. We still haven't found a way to locate your vessel. If you could remember that warp frequency. 
[Escape pod]
KAITAAMA: Are there any provisions? I'm hungry. 
TUCKER: You might check that storage compartment above your head. 
KAITAAMA: You do it. 
TUCKER: I'm busy. 
(After a short sulk, she opens the compartment.) 
TUCKER: If you find any water up there, I could use some. 
(Something falls down.) 
TUCKER: Thanks. 
(He takes a sip through a tube as she struggles to open a container.) 
TUCKER: Allow me. 
(They swap, and she looks at the drinking tube with suspicion.) 
TUCKER: I'm not contagious. 
(Tucker opens the container and sniffs at a biscuit.) 
KAITAAMA: Is it edible? 
(Tucker takes a bite.)
TUCKER: Depends how hungry you are. 
(She nibbles genteelly.) 
TUCKER: It reminds me of my first car. 
KAITAAMA: Car? 
TUCKER: A four-wheeled vehicle. Wasn't much bigger than this. All we're missing is the ocean breeze coming off the Gulf. I used to drive out to a place called Chatkin Point, park along the shoreline and stare at the moon with my girlfriend. Don't worry. I won't make a pass at you. 
KAITAAMA: The Sovereign Guard would cut off one of your hands. 
TUCKER: You must be a fun date. 
KAITAAMA: The First Monarch doesn't socialise with the opposite sex. 
TUCKER: You've never been on a date? 
KAITAAMA: Four years ago, before I was selected to ascend to First Monarch, I was courted by young men from many noble families. Now I spend my personal time in the company of my father's advisors. 
TUCKER: Sounds kind of lonely. 
KAITAAMA: You haven't finished your work. 
(Later, the little pod approaches a planet and they study the sensor readouts.) 
KAITAAMA: It's all water. 
TUCKER: There's a chain of islands near the equator. 
KAITAAMA: Will we be able to breathe? 
TUCKER: Oxygen, nitrogen, a trace of methane. Nothing we can't handle. 
KAITAAMA: Do you detect any lifeforms? 
TUCKER: If I could figure out how to use the bio-sensors. 
KAITAAMA: Are you certain we have the correct planet? 
TUCKER: It's the only one with an atmosphere. 
KAITAAMA: You may begin our descent. 
TUCKER: Let's hope I get this right. (the pod tumbles and fires it's little thrusters to slow their descent) We're entering the thermosphere. The port stabiliser's down. 
KAITAAMA: Can you repair it? 
TUCKER: No, but the starboard one should keep us on course. (the ride gets rough and the heat shield glows) 
KAITAAMA: Mister Tucker! 
TUCKER: So far so good. Eight thousand metres. I think they're metres. Seven thousand. I'm pretty sure the braking thrusters are firing. Five thousand metres. You might want to grab hold of something. 
(She puts her arms around him.) 
TUCKER: Two thousand metres. One thousand. Hold on. 
(They hit the ground and we see them upside down.) 
TUCKER: You all right? 
KAITAAMA: What is that? 
TUCKER: Damned if I know. 
[Planet surface]
(It's a lush, water-logged swamp, with animal noises and rising steam. They leave the pod and wade away, carrying their supplies.) 
KAITAAMA: This heat is unbearable. 
TUCKER: It's nothing compared to a summer in the Everglades. At least there aren't any mosquitoes. 
KAITAAMA: Where are we going? 
TUCKER: Over there. Looks like a good place to set up camp. 
KAITAAMA: Your vessel will never find us here. 
TUCKER: Don't underestimate Captain Archer. 
(They find a piece of higher, dry land and Kaitaama puts her shoes out to dry.) 
KAITAAMA: You're bleeding. 
TUCKER: It's just a scratch. 
KAITAAMA: Remove your uniform. 
TUCKER: I'll take care of it later. 
KAITAAMA: We have no idea what microbes live in this environment. It could become infected. 
TUCKER: I said later. 
KAITAAMA: You're my only hope of surviving here, Mister Tucker. I don't intend to let you die. 
(He strips to the waist while she gets out the first aid kit. Tucker sniffs the contents of a tube to see what it might be.) 
TUCKER: This one. 
(She gently dabs the ointment onto a cut on his back.) 
KAITAAMA: Hold still. The provisions won't last for more than a day. 
TUCKER: It sounds like there's plenty of wildlife. I grew up in a place kind of like this. I don't think we're going to starve. And I can use the thruster assembly from the pod to start a fire, boil some water. Thanks. 
KAITAAMA: You're welcome. 
(Later, as Trip tries to make a fire lighter out of the thruster, Kaitaama throws down a small handful of sticks.) 
TUCKER: That's the best you could do? 
KAITAAMA: There's very little dry wood. 
TUCKER: Keep looking. (she sits down) What are you waiting for? 
KAITAAMA: I'm not your servant. You're the one who was raised in a primitive environment. You find the wood. 
TUCKER: What's that supposed to mean? 
KAITAAMA: You're obviously better suited to physical labour. 
TUCKER: In case you haven't noticed, we're not in a palace. You said it yourself. You won't survive without my help, so it seems to me that I'm the one in charge. The king of the swamp. Now get your ass out there and don't come back without an armful of dry wood. 
KAITAAMA: I should have you imprisoned for speaking to me that way. 
TUCKER: You should give me a medal. You'd be dead if it weren't for me. 
KAITAAMA: I'm beginning to think that would be preferable. 
TUCKER: I doubt the commoners back home would complain. 
(She tries to hit him, he grabs her, they fall and roll down the slope into the water.) 
KAITAAMA: How dare you! 
TUCKER: You're the one who took a swing at me. 
KAITAAMA: You insulted the First Monarch! 
TUCKER: I'm just a petty commoner, remember? Raised on a primitive, 
(She shuts him up by kissing him. They gasp for breath then he returns the kiss. Later, Trip awakes lying with her beside a campfire, gets up and pours some boiled water into a cup. Then he hears a beeping sound. She wakes too.) 
[Escape pod]
(They return to the pod, the source of the sound and Tucker rips off a panel to reveal a blue flashing light.) 
KAITAAMA: What's wrong? 
TUCKER: A homing beacon. Unless I'm way off, someone just locked on to it. 
(He uses a stone to destroy it,) 
KAITAAMA: Your vessel? 
TUCKER: No way to tell.;
[Planet surface]
(Goss comes sneaking up to the pod, then sees Kaitaama and a figure in a blue uniform through the vegetation. He fires at the uniform, but it's a dummy. Kaitaama runs off, Goss moves in to investigate and Tucker jumps him from above. Sadly, good boxing punches to the face have no effect on Goss, and Tucker gets thrown against a rock and dazed. Goss tries to drown him but Kaitaama thumps him over the head with a branch and knocks him out cold.) 
KAITAAMA: Leave him. 
(Tucker drags Goss onto drier ground.) 
TUCKER: Let's find his weapon. 
KAITAAMA: There's someone else here. 
(The pair are groping around in the water, with their backs to us, when there's a voice.) 
ARCHER: Trip? 
(They turn to see Archer, T'Pol and a grinning Reed.) 
ARCHER: This a bad time? 
Captain's Star log, September 12th, 2152. We've rendezvoused with a Krios battle cruiser, which has taken the kidnappers into custody. 
[Corridor]
(Tucker is clean and fully dressed again.) 
TUCKER: So, when do you ascend? 
(Kaitaama is also clean and in a slightly too-big uniform.) 
KAITAAMA: Two hundred and forty six days. 
TUCKER: It's a long shot, but maybe Enterprise will get the chance to visit Krios Prime before then. Of course, from what you've told me I doubt your family would let me see you. 
KAITAAMA: I doubt they would, but once I've been made First Monarch I'll have the authority to change the rules. 
TUCKER: What kind of changes? 
(She moves in close without actually touching.) 
KAITAAMA: Come visit me. Perhaps you'll find out. 

