Episode Number: 63
The Enterprise Transcripts - Carpenter Street
Carpenter Street
Original Airdate: 26 Nov, 2003
(On a rainy night in Detroit, 2004,, a car pulls up and a man gets out, carrying a folder. He crosses the street and goes into an apartment block. Up in his room, he bolts and chains the door and gets a beer from the fridge. There's the remains of an old pizza in the bathroom. He takes a bite. The telephone rings.) 
[Loomis' apartment]
LOOMIS: Hello? 
DAMRON [OC]: Have you made your selection? 
LOOMIS: Yeah, yeah, it's all set, just like we discussed.
DAMRON [OC]: We'll be expecting you.
LOOMIS: And the money, same as last time, right? 
[Warehouse]
DAMRON: The same. Be careful with the sedative. You nearly killed the last one. 
LOOMIS [OC]: One hundred milligrams. Don't worry, I'll get it right. 
DAMRON: We'll be expecting you. 
(Finally we see the speaker is - a Xindi Reptilian.) 
[Street, night]
(Loomis stops his car near a pair of working girls, and one comes over.) 
PROSTITUTE: Looking for a date, honey?
LOOMIS: Maybe with your friend. 
PROSTITUTE: You don't know what you're missing. 
(She walks away and the other comes over.)
GEORGIA: Ooo, what can I do for you, sweetheart? 
(She holds his hand.) 
GEORGIA: Hey, I know you from this morning. You brought me the apple juice.
LOOMIS: What? 
GEORGIA: At the clinic? 
LOOMIS: Oh, yeah. Now I remember. Small world, huh? 
GEORGIA: Want me to get in? 
LOOMIS: Sure, yeah. 
GEORGIA: Bye, girl. See you tomorrow. 
[Loomis' car]
(He drives off.)
GEORGIA: There's a nice place to park right in the neighbourhood. Turn left at the next light. 
LOOMIS: Georgia Tandy, O negative. 
GEORGIA: How the hell would you remember that? 
(Loomis pulls in to the side.) 
GEORGIA: Er, it's another two blocks. 
(He gets out a bottle and a cloth.) 
GEORGIA: If that's drugs, I am not interested. What you got in there? 
LOOMIS: Come here. 
(There's a brief struggle as he puts the chloroform-laden cloth over her mouth, then she passes out.) 
LOOMIS: There you go. There you go. 
(Then he injects her with the sedative.) 
LOOMIS: It's okay. They said they won't hurt you. 
[Warehouse entrance]
(Loomis presses the intercom.) 
DAMRON [OC]: Yes? 
LOOMIS: Loomis. 
(The gates open, he drives in, parks up and carries Georgia inside.) 
[Warehouse]
(Inside the American Wrecking Company building, there are two rows of beds, and most have occupants. There are medical monitors and other hospital equipment around.) 
LOOMIS: There you go, nice and comfy. 
(He lays her on bed, attaches an IV and puts a pair of electrodes on her forehead. Then he collects a briefcase containing his money and leaves.) 
[Archer's quarters]
ARCHER: (to Porthos) Good boy. Cheese? 
(Archer throws a piece and Porthos catches it.) 
ARCHER: This is your last piece. 
DANIELS: It's okay. How've you been, Jon? 
ARCHER: About time you showed up. Our mission's changed quite a bit since the last time I saw you, but I suppose you're aware of it. 
DANIELS: I am. 
ARCHER: Maybe you could fill in a few of the blanks for me. The Xindi weapon would be a good place to start. 
DANIELS: We don't know any more than you do. 
ARCHER: I thought you and your colleagues were supposed to be keeping an eye on the time line. You're from the thirtieth century. Hasn't all this happened already? 
DANIELS: History doesn't mention anything about a conflict between humans and Xindi. 
ARCHER: How could that be? 
DANIELS: The events that are taking place are the result of temporal incursions. They are not supposed to be happening. 
ARCHER: But they are happening. 
DANIELS: Yes, they are, but the outcome hasn't reached us yet. It takes a while for changes to ripple through the time line. 
ARCHER: The time traveller, the man the Suliban worked for. 
DANIELS: What about him? 
ARCHER: He's the one who told us about the weapon being built. Should I believe him?
DANIELS: You have no reason not to.
ARCHER: You said I'm supposed to play some crucial part in history. Does this have something to do with it? 
DANIELS: I wish I could say that it does, but I don't know. I told you, none of this was supposed to happen. 
ARCHER: You're not being very helpful. Why are you here? 
DANIELS: We've detected three Xindi where they're not supposed to be. 
ARCHER: This Expanse is filled with Xindi. 
DANIELS: I'm not talking about the Expanse. I'm talking about Detroit, Michigan, a hundred and fifty years ago. 
[T'Pol's quarters]
(The doorbell wakes her.) 
ARCHER: Sorry to get you up, but this couldn't wait. 
T'POL: Come in. 
(Porthos makes himself right at home.) 
ARCHER: I just had a visit from Daniels. I think all your doubts about time travel are about to go out the window. 
T'POL: Meaning? 
ARCHER: Daniels and his team have discovered three Reptilians on Earth in the early twenty first century. He wants to send us back to find out what they're doing. 
T'POL: Us? 
ARCHER: He told me I could bring one person, no more. 
T'POL: If Daniels is the time traveller he claims to be, why doesn't he find our for himself? 
ARCHER: It took him a long while to get permission to interact with me. There are clearances. He said it would take too much time. 
T'POL: I would think he would have all the time in the world. 
ARCHER: He said the three Xindi travelled to Earth from our century. They've been there for two months. They're not sight-seeing, T'Pol. We have to find out what they're up to. 
T'POL: How are we supposed to accomplish this? 
ARCHER: He wants us to meet him in the Command Centre at oh eight hundred tomorrow. (to Porthos) Come on, boy. Check the database. Find something to wear that won't stand out in 2004. 
[Corridor]
TUCKER: Last time Daniels sent you to another century you had one hell of a time getting back. 
ARCHER: He gave me this, said he'd return us whenever we signalled him. 
(Archer opens the box to show sixteen little items.) 
ARCHER: These are temporal tags. We can use them to bring back anything that doesn't belong there. 
TUCKER: If anyone asks where you went, what should I tell them? With two shuttlepods in the bay it'll be hard to explain. 
(T'Pol joins them, her hair covering her ears.) 
ARCHER: I'm sure you'll think of something. Try to stay out of trouble. 
TUCKER: You too. 
ARCHER: Here's the duty roster. 
(Archer and T'Pol walk into the Command Centre which is now) 
[Detroit, street at night]
T'POL: We just travelled ninety light years back to Earth. 
ARCHER: And a hundred and fifty years into the past. 
T'POL: Forgive me if I'm not entirely convinced. 
ARCHER: You will be. Come on. 
(They walk along scanning parked cars at a row of meters.) 
ARCHER: This one has a motion activated security system. This one too. 
(The third seems a good bet, and he uses the scanner to unlock it.) 
ARCHER: We're in. 
T'POL: This apparatus. It appears to have been designed to incapacitate the vehicle. 
(The car's been clamped. The next;potential one with an open window has a Rottweiler in it. They finally get into a truck with ladders on the roof and a loud radio which Archer struggles to switch off) 
RADIO: Sunday, the Tri-state Speedway, an all-star line-up of all your favourite monster mayhem. 
[In the truck]
T'POL: Have you ever operated a vehicle from this period? 
ARC HER: I can pilot a starship. R N D 2 3 4. 
T'POL: I suggest you begin with two. 
ARCHER: Foot controls. 
(They eventually drive off) 
T'POL: I don't believe you've activated your external lighting. 
ARCHER: What year is that map from? 
(T'Pol reads her PADD.) 
T'POL: 2002. It was the closest I could find in the Starfleet database. 
ARCHER: The layout shouldn't have changed a lot in two years. 
T'POL: Turn starboard on twenty fourth street. 
ARCHER: If that thing has a scanning radius of three kilometres, how far are we going to have to drive to cover the entire city? 
T'POL: I have created a search grid that requires a journey of approximately eighty kilometres, but it's probably we'll find them before we complete it. 
(Later, a light has come on on the dashboard.)
T'POL: What's that icon? 
ARCHER: It's a gasoline pump. We need to get fuel. 
T'POL: Where? 
ARCHER: Where isn't the problem. We're going to need money. US currency. 
T'POL: That's going to be difficult at this time of night. 
ARCHER: Not necessarily. 
[Outside bank]
(The scanner persuades an ATM to dispense notes.)
ARCHER: People used to go to jail for this. 
T'POL: We'll return what we don't use. 
[Strode's apartment]
(Loomis rings the bell on 602. The door opens slightly and the occupant answers from 
lower down, from behind the chain.) 
STRODE: Yeah? 
LOOMIS: Are you Vaughan Strode? 
STRODE: Who are you? 
LOOMIS: I'm from the blood bank. We had a screw-up this afternoon. We gave you the wrong papers to sign. 
STRODE: I'm not giving the money back. 
LOOMIS: No, no, no, they don't want the money back. In fact. they're going to pay you again. Twenty five bucks. They just need you to sign the right papers.
STRODE: You bring them? 
LOOMIS: No, they wouldn't let me. You've got to do it in front of the supervisor. You know, the fat broad that paid you. They sent me to drive you down. 
STRODE: It's eleven o'clock at night. 
LOOMIS: Yeah, I know. They want to send your blood work out first thing in the morning and they can't do it without the right paperwork. You want the twenty five bucks or not? 
(Strode opens the door and comes out in his wheelchair.) 
STRODE: This going to take long? I don't want to miss Conan. 
[In the truck]
T'POL: Were they aware at this time that Earth's supply of fossil fuel was nearing depletion? 
ARCHER: They had been for thirty years, but it wasn't until 2061 that they finally 
(The scanner beeps.) 
T'POL: One kilometre, straight ahead. 
(Archer parka up very neatly in a near-deserted car park.)
T'POL: Second structure from the left. Three Xindi biosigns. 
ARCHER: Any humans? 
T'POL: Five, in another part of the building. 
ARCHER: This doesn't look very residential. Set your phase pistol to kill. When the Reptilians boarded Enterprise, stun had no effect. See what you can find out. I'll look over there. 
[Outside the warehouse]
(In different places, talking over their communicators. 
T'Pol is by the security fence, Archer 
by the wall.
) 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
ARCHER: There's a neutronic power source coming from the first floor. 
T'POL: I've found a gate with an electric locking mechanism. We shouldn't have a problem. Do you see the vehicle?
(Archer ducks out of line of it's headlights.) 
ARCHER: I see it. 
DAMRON [OC]: Yes? 
LOOMIS: Loomis. 
(The gate opens. He drives through as T'Pol watches) 
[Inside the Warehouse]
(Strode is now laid out on a bed. Damron is 
hiding in the shadows.
) 
DAMRON: Did you disinfect your hands? 
LOOMIS: I insert IVs all day, I told you that. If there are any infections here it won't be because of me. You forget something? 
DAMRON: We've decided to compensate you for the final three patients in one payment. 
LOOMIS: Well, that's not what we agreed. You said I'd get paid for each one. 
DAMRON: Bring us the last two blood types and you will be compensated. 
LOOMIS: We should wait a while, a few more days at least. There was something on the news. Cops are starting to get some complaints that people have gone missing. 
DAMRON: We can't wait a few more days. We need the last two. 
LOOMIS: Look, as soon as they figure out that all these people here have been to the clinic, it won't take a rocket scientist to point the finger at me. 
DAMRON: Then I suggest you finish your work quickly. 
LOOMIS: Look, I don't know what you guys are up to, and I don't want to know. It's not my business. But the cops don't take kindly to people who help terrorists. I gotta be real careful. 
DAMRON: We will double your fee for the final three, but the last two must be here by tomorrow. 
LOOMIS: Double? Tomorrow? Yeah, all right. I'll have them here by tomorrow. 
[In the truck]
(They're waiting for Loomis to leave.) 
ARCHER: Here he comes. 
(They follow.) 
[Loomis' apartment]
(Back home, Loomis paces a bit, then gets another beer, sits on his bed and starts going through files.) 
LOOMIS: Ninth floor. (rejected) Two hundred and eighty pounds. (rejected) William Myers, second floor. 
(There's a knock on the door, and it's someone he doesn't know. Archer's scanner tracks him trying to get out down the fire escape and breaks in. T'Pol is at the bottom of the ladder and floors Loomis with a neck pinch.; Back in the apartment, Loomis is awake and tied to a chair.)
ARCHER: And the man in the wheelchair. Why were you bringing him to an abandoned factory in the middle of the night? 
LOOMIS: I swear I don't know what you're talking about. 
T'POL: What's this? 
(She shows him the case of Methohexital.) 
LOOMIS: Oh, I took that from the clinic. I work at the blood bank on Porter Street. Check with them, they'll tell you. I've been there for over a year.
ARCHER: Why would you take it? 
LOOMIS: Make a few extra bucks. There's plenty of people on the street looking for that stuff. 
T'POL: Really. Why would anyone on the street be interested in acquiring methohexitol? 
ARCHER: You make it a habit of climbing out your window when someone knocks on the door?
LOOMIS: I don't like cops. 
ARCHER: Tell us about your friends on Carpenter Street. 
LOOMIS: I've never been to Carpenter Street. 
ARCHER: You were there an hour ago with the man in the wheelchair. Now tell me who's inside that factory. 
LOOMIS: I told you, I don't know what you're talking about. I think it's time you find me a lawyer. 
ARCHER: Untie him. 
LOOMIS: You heard him. Untie me. 
(T'Pol unties him.) 
LOOMIS: That's better. 
(Archer floors him with a massive punch then drags him back onto the chair to be retied.)
ARCHER: I didn't feel right doing that with you tied up. Carpenter Street. 
LOOMIS: You're not allowed to hit me. 
ARCHER: Untie him again. 
LOOMIS: No, no, no, no, wait a minute! Wait a minute! Wait a minute, I don't know who he is, I swear to God. A doctor, maybe. Says he's working on a vaccine, experimental. He doesn't have approval or something like that so he needed me to bring him people. 
T'POL: Does it seem logical to you that legitimate medical research is being conducted in an abandoned factory? 
LOOMIS: I thought about that. Just tonight, I thought maybe he's some kind of terrorist. But I swear if I knew that for a fact I never would have agreed to help him. 
T'POL: In one individual we've managed to find the worst qualities of this era. Greed, violence, moral corruption. 
LOOMIS: But he said he wasn't going to hurt anybody. I just saw them an hour ago. They're all okay. 
ARCHER: How many? 
LOOMIS: Five. No, no, six. The wheelchair guy was number six. 
ARCHER: How did this doctor find you. 
LOOMIS: I told you, I work at the blood bank. He wanted someone from every blood type. Eight blood types, eight people. He figured I had access to that kind of information. 
(T'Pol hands Archer the files.) 
T'POL: Did he also figure that you'd have no compunctions about abducting people? 
ARCHER: What's he paying you? 
LOOMIS: Five thousand apiece, double for the last three. 
T'POL: Is that what human life is worth in the twenty first century? 
LOOMIS: I told you, he said he wasn't going to hurt any of them. 
ARCHER: What does he look like? 
LOOMIS: He only calls me on the phone. I saw him a couple of times, but he stays in the shadows. You know, he's kind of tall, that's all I can tell you. Why don't you let me go. I swear to you, I will never do it again. 
ARCHER: You are going to do it again. That is, if you have any hope of staying out of prison. 
LOOMIS: What are you talking about? 
ARCHER: These two files, AB positive and B negative, they're the final two? 
LOOMIS: Yeah. 
ARCHER: Well, then you're looking at your next victim, a healthy male with B negative blood. 
[In the truck]
(Loomis is sitting between Archer and T'Pol.) 
LOOMIS: If you think you're going to be in there a long time, we should get something to eat first. 
T'POL: Be quiet. 
LOOMIS: Come on, I'm not talking about anything fancy. A burger, a taco? There's a drive-through less than a mile from here. Cops have to eat, don't they? What is the matter with you two? I'll pay. 
T'POL: I told you to be quiet. 
ARCHER: What side of the street is it on?
(At the drive-through burger shop.) 
WOMAN [OC]: Welcome to Burgerland. How may I serve you, sir? 
LOOMIS: I'll have the Double Superbeef, no lettuce. 
ARCHER: One Double Superbeef without lettuce, please. 
WOMAN [OC]: You can make that a triple for only forty cents extra. 
LOOMIS: Do it. 
ARCHER: A double will be fine. 
WOMAN [OC]: Would you like to make that a combo? 
LOOMIS: Yeah, fries and a medium root beer. 
WOMAN [OC]: Will there be anything else today? 
ARCHER: A hamburger, ketchup only. 
WOMAN [OC]: You can make that a double for only forty cents extra. 
ARCHER: No, thank you. 
WOMAN [OC]: Would you like to make that a combo? 
ARCHER: No, no combo. 
WOMAN [OC]: Will there be anything else today? 
T'POL: Does the Fiesta Salad contain animal products? 
WOMAN [OC]: No, but we can add three strips of bacon for only seventy five cents more. 
T'POL: Nothing for me, thank you. 
ARCHER: You're sure? 
T'POL: Quite. 
(Driving along again. Loomis is;
eating his burger with his hands tied.)
LOOMIS: You guys don't mind, do you? I'm starving. You know, it'd make it a lot easier if you'd untie my hands. It's not like I'm going anywhere. 
ARCHER: Do the best you can. 
(A piece of meat falls in T'Pol's lap.) 
LOOMIS: Uh oh, I told you. Let me get that for you. Oh boy. 
(She pushes him back and throws the piece out of the window.) 
LOOMIS: You're a veggie, I forgot. Why don't you take a fry, they're probably okay. Have it your way. 
[Warehouse}
(Loomis wheels an unconscious looking Archer in, puts him on a bed and inserts the IV into the back of his hand. He;
whispers as he puts the electrodes on his forehead.
)
LOOMIS: They'll come in to take fresh blood samples every hour. They re-administer the sedative every six hours. I recommend you do whatever you're going to do before then. 
(The door at the top of the stairs opens.);
LOOMIS: Number seven. 
DAMRON: Which one is it? 
LOOMIS: B, B negative. You'll have AB positive by tomorrow night, I swear. 
DAMRON: Make certain I do. 
(Damron closes the door. Loomis takes the wheelchair and leaves.) 
[In the truck]
(T'Pol is crouched down holding a phase pistol.) 
T'POL: Engage the engine and proceed to the second location. 
LOOMIS: Nice ray gun. Am I supposed to believe that thing's for real? 
(She fires at the driver's door and it makes a hole.) 
T'POL: Drive. 
LOOMIS: Ten grand a piece for the last three and I'm not going to see a penny of it. 
T'POL: Don't speak until we're out of visual range. 
[Warehouse]
REPTILIAN: (to other Reptilian) Fifteen millilitres from the new arrival. 
(Somehow Archer doesn't flinch as the needle is pushed into his neck and the blood sample drawn.) 
[Loomis' car]
LOOMIS: You catch these guys and I get immunity, right. We're not talking about copping to a lesser charge. 
T'POL: When my associate returns we'll discuss the details. 
LOOMIS: Hey, I'm taking a big chance here, okay? If your associate doesn't catch them, they're going to come looking for me, okay? You two have to keep your word. 
T'POL: You've been abducting people for money and you're questioning our honesty? 
(On the warehouse, Archer disentangles himself from the wires and IV and starts following the Reptilians through the building using the scanner. He has his phase pistol ready.)
T'POL: Sit back. 
LOOMIS: Relax, just getting a smoke. 
(T'Pol stares in horror at him lighting up.) 
T'POL: What are you doing? 
LOOMIS: I don't know about you, honey, but I'm a little tense. know what I mean? 
T'POL: Extinguish that now! 
LOOMIS: If you want some air, open your window. 
(She holds the phase pistol to his head.) 
T'POL: Now. 
(He throws the cigarette out of the vehicle.
Her communicator chirps and she takes the keys from the ignition.
)
T'POL: Stay exactly where you are. 
(She gets out of the car.) 
T'POL: T'Pol. 
ARCHER [OC]: They brought a bio-reactor with them. They're synthesising some kind of viral agent. 
[Warehouse - looking down on the Xindi lab]
ARCHER: Rajiin warned us about a bio-weapon. This could be it. 
[Outside warehouse]
T'POL: Why would they travel back through time? 
ARCHER [OC]: Daniels said they might be hiding from someone. 
[Warehouse - looking down on the Xindi lab]
ARCHER: The past seems like a pretty good place to hide. 
[Outside warehouse]
ARCHER [OC]: We've got to keep them from getting it back to our time. 
T'POL: Are you in a position to disable all three of them? 
[Warehouse - looking down on the Xindi lab]
ARCHER: I don't know. I was thinking about trying to take out the bio-reactor, but I could end up spreading whatever's in there across half the city. 
[Outside factory]
T'POL: They must have some kind of temporal beacon. If you can destroy it, they'll have no way of getting back. 
[Warehouse - looking down on the Xindi lab]
ARCHER: I've got to find it first. 
[Outside warehouse]
T'POL: Modify your scanner to a delta band frequency. That should help you locate the signal from the temporal beacon. 
(Loomis digs a flick knife out from the base of the passenger sea.t) 
[Warehouse - looking down on the Xindi lab]
(Archer locates the beacon and fires his phase pistol at it. He also hits a Xindi and starts a shooting match. The remaining two pull a metal tube out of the middle of the machine and make a run for it. Archer jumps down onto the floor of the lab and puts temporal tabs on the bio-reactor and the fallen Xindi.) 
ARCHER: (into communicator) They've gone out the west door. They could be headed for the street. They have the virus. 
[Outside factory - west]
ARCHER: T'Pol. 
T'POL [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
ARCHER: They're in the west alley way north of the main 
[Outside warehouse]
ARCHER [OC]: Building. I could use some help. 
T'POL: Acknowledged. 
(She returns to the car and throws the keys at Loomis.) 
T'POL: Drive. 
[Loomis' car]
LOOMIS: Trouble? 
T'POL: Drive. 
(Further on.) 
T'POL: Pull over and stop here.
LOOMIS: They give you all that fancy equipment and what good does it do you. 
T'POL: Lower your window. 
LOOMIS: (winding it down) I knew your partner's plan wouldn't work. 
T'POL: Be quiet. They're coming. 
(As soon as the building door opens, Loomis sounds the horn.) 
T'POL: Stop! 
(Loomis swings the knife at her but misses. She fires her phase pistol and hits one Xindi, then disarms Loomis, adjusts the setting on her phase pistol and stuns him. Archer is in hot pursuit of the remaining Xindi, who heads up a ladder to the roof. They both go up another ladder.)
ARCHER: Come on. 
[Warehouse rooftop]
(The Xindi finds an extractor fan and takes the virus out of it's case. Archer fires at him and he hides.) 
ARCHER: He's trying to release the toxin. 
T'POL: We've eliminated his only means of returning to his own century. Perhaps he has no other choice. 
ARCHER: If he's trying to destroy humanity, he's not going to be able to do it with that. They only modified the virus for six blood types. 
T'POL: If they can infect three quarters of Earth's population, it's unlikely humans will pose a threat to them in the future. 
ARCHER: Let's hope he can't see in the dark. Keep laying down fire. 
(He circles around, jumping across a narrow alley to get behind and above the Reptilian.)
ARCHER: Don't move a muscle. Drop it. Why a second weapon? Where were you going to take it? 
DAMRON: We won't allow you to destroy us. Your species is doomed. 
(Damron lunges for the virus, but is shot. Nevertheless, he pushes the virus case and it rolls towards the extractor fan. Archer grabs it before it falls in. T'Pol tags the body.) 
ARCHER: Let's go. 
[Corridor]
TUCKER: Problem, sir? 
ARCHER: It's done. 
TUCKER: Sir? 
ARCHER: Archer to Lieutenant Reed. 
REED [OC]: Go ahead. 
ARCHER: Get a team down to the Command centre on the double. 
REED [OC]: Aye sir. 
ARCHER: (to T'Pol) Wait here for Malcolm. Have everything brought to Cargo Bay two. I've got to get this to Phlox. 
TUCKER: What's going on? 
T'POL: Come with me. 
(The Command centre now contains the bio-reactor and three Xindi-Reptilians.) 
[Outside warehouse - day]
(Patrol cars screech to a halt, a little bit sideways.) 
OFFICER 1: Get out of the car.
OFFICER 2: He's on something. 
OFFICER 1: Get out of the car. 
(He pulls driver's door open.) 
OFFICER 1: Keep your hands where we can see them.
OFFICER 2: Come on. Come on. 
LOOMIS: What's going on? 
(He is pushed against the car and frisked.)
LOOMIS: Hey, hey, hey, I didn't do anything. 
OFFICER 1: We got a tip says you did. 
OFFICER 2: You're just lucky all six of them are still alive. 
(The officer cuffs Loomis.) 
LOOMIS: Those two cops who came to my place, they offered me a deal. That's the only reason I helped them. 
OFFICER 1: I don't know what you're talking about. Get him out of here. 
LOOMIS: Those creature, the lizard people, they're around here somewhere. You've got to find them. 
OFFICER 2: No problem, we'll get right on that. 
LOOMIS: Be careful, be careful. They've got ray guns. 
OFFICER 2: Ray guns. Got it. 
(He puts Loomis in the patrol car.) 
OFFICER 2:Watch your head. 

