Episode Number: 1
The Enterprise Transcripts - Broken Bow
Broken Bow
Mission date: Sep 21, 2151
Original Airdate: 21 Sep, 2001
[Archer home - 2121]
(A young boy is painting a model spaceship, under the watchful eye of his father) 
JONATHAN: Where no man has gone before. 
FATHER: Doctor Cochrane would be proud of you. 
JONATHAN: I know the whole speech by heart. When's it going to be ready to fly? 
FATHER: Let the paint dry first. 
JONATHAN: No, I mean the ship. 
FATHER: Not for a while. It hasn't even been built yet. You know that. 
JONATHAN: How big will it be? 
FATHER: Pretty big. 
JONATHAN: Bigger than Ambassador Pointy's ship? 
FATHER: His name is Soval, and he's been very helpful. And I've told you not to call him that, Jonathan. 
JONATHAN: Well, Billy Cook said we'd be flying at warp five by now if the Vulcans hadn't kept things from us. 
FATHER: Well they have their reasons. God knows what they are. 
[Broken Bow, Oklahoma - 30 Years Later] 
(A field has a ship crash-landed in it. A Klingon is running from two alien pursuers. The farmer goes to get his rifle while the Klingon hides in the grain silo. One aliens slides underneath the door to the silo and unlocks it for the other. The Klingon jumps from the upper door and runs before turning to blow up the silo. The farmer arrives on the scene.) 
MOORE: Drop your weapon! I mean it! 
KLAANG: (unintelligible) 
MOORE: I don't understand a word you're saying, but I guarantee you I know how to use this. 
KLAANG: (unintelligible) 
(He steps forward, so the farmer shoots him.) 
[Space pod]
(Approaching a spaceship in spacedock.) 
TUCKER: The ventral plating team says they'll be done in about three days. 
ARCHER: Be sure they match the colour to the nacelle housings. 
TUCKER: You planning to sit on the hull and pose for some postcards? 
ARCHER: Maybe. God, she's beautiful. 
TUCKER: And fast. Warp four point five next Thursday. 
ARCHER: Neptune and back in six minutes. Let's take a look at the lateral sensor array. 
TUCKER: Give me a second. 
ARCHER: Slow down. There, those are the ports that buckled during the last test. They need to be reinforced. (Tucker makes a note and the pod bounces against the ship's hull) Great, you scratched the paint. 
TUCKER: Sorry. Orbital six. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain Archer, sir. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Admiral Forrest needs you at Starfleet Medical right away. 
[Starfleet Medical - observation room]
WILLIAMS: Who was chasing him? 
(The Vulcan Ambassador replies.)
SOVAL: We don't know. They were incinerated in the methane explosion, and the farmer's description was vague at best. 
LEONARD: How did they get here? What kind of ship? 
TOS: (another Vulcan) They were using some kind of stealth technology. We're still analyzing our sensor logs. 
WILLIAMS: I'd like to see those logs. 
SOVAL: The Klingons made it very clear they want us to expedite this. 
LEONARD: It happened on our soil. 
TOS: That's irrelevant. 
FORREST: Ambassador, with all due respect, we have a right to know what's going on here. 
SOVAL: You will be apprised of all pertinent information. 
WILLIAMS: And just who gets to decide what's pertinent information? 
ARCHER: Admiral. 
FORREST: Jon. I think you know everyone. 
ARCHER: Not everyone. 
LEONARD: It's a Klingot. 
TOS: A Klingon. 
ARCHER: Where'd he come from? 
(They're viewing through window.) 
WILLIAMS: Oklahoma. 
FORREST: A corn farmer named Moore shot him with a plasma rifle. Says it was self-defense. 
TOS: Fortunately, Soval and I have maintained close contact with Kronos since the incident occurred. 
ARCHER: Kronos? 
LEONARD: It's the Klingon's homeworld. 
FORREST: This gentleman is some sort of a courier. Evidently he was carrying crucial information back to his people. 
SOVAL: When he was nearly killed by your "farmer." 
FORREST: Ambassador Soval thinks it would be best if we push off your launch until we've cleared this up. 
ARCHER: Well, isn't that a surprise. You'd think they'd have come up with something a little more imaginative this time. 
SOVAL: Sarcasm aside, Captain, the last thing your people need is to make an enemy of the Klingon Empire. 
TOS: If we hadn't convinced them to let us take Klaang's corpse back to Kronos, Earth would most likely be facing a squadron of Warbirds by the end of the week. 
ARCHER: Corpse? Is he dead? 
[Intensive Care Unit]
ARCHER: Excuse me, is that man dead? 
(He speaks to a humanoid with a high forehead and ridges running up from the outside of his eyesockets.)
PHLOX: His autonomic system was disrupted by the blast but his redundant neural functions are 
ARCHER: Is he going to die? 
PHLOX: Not necessarily. 
[Starfleet Medical - observation room]
ARCHER: Let me get this straight. You're going to disconnect this man from life support even though he could live. Now where's the logic in that? 
SOVAL: Klaang's culture finds honour in death. If they saw him like this he'd be disgraced. 
TOS: They're a warrior race. They dream of dying in battle. If you understood the complexities of interstellar diplomacy 
ARCHER: So that's your diplomatic solution, to do what they tell you. Pull the plug? 
TOS: Your metaphor is crude, but accurate. 
ARCHER: We may be crude, but we're not murderers. You're not going to let them do this, are you? 
SOVAL: The Klingons have demanded that we return Klaang immediately. 
ARCHER: Admiral. 
FORREST: We may need to defer to their judgement. 
ARCHER: We've been deferring to their judgement for a hundred years! 
FORREST: Jon. 
ARCHER: How much longer? 
T'POL: Until you've proven you're ready, 
ARCHER: Ready to what? 
T'POL: To look beyond your provincial attitudes and volatile nature. 
ARCHER: Volatile? You have no idea how much I'm restraining myself from knocking you on your ass. These Klingons, they're anxious to get their man back. Fine. I can have my ship ready to go in three days. We'll take him back home, alive. 
SOVAL: This is no time to be imposing your ethical beliefs. 
FORREST: Dan? 
LEONARD: What about your crew? Your Comm. Officer's in Brazil. You haven't selected a Medical Officer yet. 
ARCHER: Three days, that's all I need. 
SOVAL: (protesting) Admiral. 
FORREST: We've been waiting for nearly a century, Ambassador. This seems as good a time as any to get started. 
SOVAL: Listen to me. You're making a mistake! 
ARCHER: When your logic doesn't work, you raise your voice? You've been on Earth too long. (The Vulcans leave) 
FORREST: I had a feeling their approach wouldn't sit too well with you. Don't screw this up. 
(Archer knocks on ICU window and beckons Phlox over) 
[USS Enterprise - Transporter alcove]
(A dark-skinned human and one with an English accent.)
TRAVIS: I heard this platform's been approved for bio-transport. 
REED: I presume you mean fruits and vegetables. 
TRAVIS: I mean Armoury Officers and Helmsmen. 
REED: I don't think I'm quite ready to have my molecules compressed into a data stream. 
TRAVIS: They claim it's safe. 
REED: Do they indeed. Well, I certainly hope the Captain doesn't plan on making us use it. 
TRAVIS: Don't worry, from what I'm told, he wouldn't even put his dog through this thing. 
REED: (opening newly arrived box) This is ridiculous. I asked for plasma coils and they sent me a case of valve sealant. There's no chance I can have these weapons online in three days. 
TRAVIS: We're just taking a sick man back to his homeworld. Why do we need weapons? 
REED: Didn't you read the profile report on these Klingons? Apparently, they sharpen their teeth before they go into battle. 
[Corridor]
REED: No doubt Mister Tucker will reassure me that my equipment will be here tomorrow. Keep your shirt on, Lieutenant. 
TRAVIS: Is it me, or does the artificial gravity seem a bit heavy? 
REED: Feels all right. Earth sea level. 
TRAVIS: My father always kept it at point eight G. He thought it put a little spring in his step. 
REED: After being raised on cargo ships, it must've felt like you had lead in your boots when you got to Earth. 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: Beautiful. Lock it off right there. 
(The slightly southern USA accented man wipes a fingerprint off the warp console.) 
REED: I believe you missed a spot. Commander Tucker, Ensign Travis Mayweather. He just arrived. 
TUCKER: Our space boomer. 
TRAVIS: How fast have you gotten her? 
TUCKER: Warp four. We'll be going to four five as soon as we clear Jupiter. Think you can handle it? 
TRAVIS: Four point five. 
REED: Pardon me, but if I don't realign the deflector, the first grain of space dust we come across will blow a hole through this ship the size of your fist. 
TUCKER: Keep your shirt on, Lieutenant. Your equipment'll be here in the morning. 
[Amazon University - outdoor classroom]
(An Asian woman is giving a language class. The ! indicates a click sound against the palate.)
HOSHI: Ghlungit !tak nekleet. 
STUDENTS: Ghlungit !tak nekleet. 
HOSHI: Very good. Ghlungit !tak nekleet. 
STUDENTS: Ghlungit !tak nekleet. 
HOSHI: Carlos. Ltrunghi !krgltt! 
CARLOS: Ltrunghi !krgltt! 
HOSHI: !krgltt! 
CARLOS: !krgltt! 
HOSHI: Tighten the back of your tongue. !krgltt! 
CARLOS: !krgltt! !krgltt! 
HOSHI: Keep trying. You've almost got it. (sees Archer) I'll be right back. 
(They walk along a leafy path) 
HOSHI: There's two more weeks before exams. It's impossible for me to leave now. 
ARCHER: You've got to have someone who can cover for you. 
HOSHI: If there was anyone else who could do what I do, you wouldn't be so eager to have me on your space ship. 
ARCHER: Hoshi 
HOSHI: I'm sorry, Captain. I owe it to these kids. 
ARCHER: I could order you. 
HOSHI: I'm on leave from Starfleet, remember? You would have to forcibly recall me, which would require a reprimand which would disqualify me from serving on an active vessel. 
ARCHER: I need someone with your ear. 
HOSHI: And you'll have her in three weeks. (Archer plays a recording) What's that? 
ARCHER: Klingon. Ambassador Soval gave us a sampling of their linguistic database. 
HOSHI: I thought you said the Vulcans were opposed to this. 
ARCHER: They are. but we agreed to make a few compromises. 
HOSHI: What do you know about these Klingons? 
ARCHER: Not much. An empire of warriors with eighty poly-guttural dialects constructed on an adaptive syntax. 
HOSHI: Turn it up. 
ARCHER: Think about it. You'd be the first human to talk to these people. Do you really want someone else to do it? 
[Corridor]
;
TUCKER: Since when do we have Vulcan Science Officers? 
ARCHER: Since we needed their star charts to get to Kronos. 
TUCKER: So we get a few maps and they get to put a spy on our ship? 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Admiral Forrest says we should think of her more as a chaperone. 
TUCKER: I thought the whole point of this was to get away from the Vulcans. 
ARCHER: Four days there, four days back, then she's gone. In the meantime, we're to extend her every courtesy. 
TUCKER: I don't know. I'd be more comfortable with Porthos on the Bridge. 
ARCHER: Here we go. Come in. 
T'POL: This confirms that I was formally transferred to your command at oh eight hundred hours. Reporting for duty. 
(The Vulcan woman sniffs.) 
ARCHER: Is there a problem? 
T'POL: No, sir. 
ARCHER: Oh, I forgot. Vulcan females have a heightened sense of smell. I hope Porthos isn't too offensive to you. 
T'POL: I've been trained to tolerate offensive situations. 
TUCKER: I took a shower this morning. How about you, Captain? 
ARCHER: I'm sorry. This is Commander Charles Tucker the third. Sub-Commander T'Pol. 
TUCKER: Trip. I'm called Trip. 
T'POL: I'll try to remember that. 
ARCHER: While you may not share our enthusiasm about this mission, I expect you to follow our rules. What's said in this room and out on that Bridge is privileged information. I don't want every word I say being picked apart the next day by the Vulcan High Command. 
T'POL: My reason for being here is not espionage. My superiors simply asked me to assist you. 
ARCHER: Your superiors don't think we can flush a toilet without one of you to assist us. 
T'POL: I didn't request this assignment Captain, and you can be certain that when the mission's over I'll be as pleased to leave this ship as you'll be to have me go. (Porthos jumps up at her) If there's nothing else? 
ARCHER: That'll be all. 
[Spacedock - view of Enterprise through window]
FORREST: When Zefram Cochrane made his legendary warp flight ninety years ago, and drew the attention of our new friends, the Vulcans. We realised that we weren't alone in the galaxy. Today we're about to cross a new threshold. For nearly a century, we've waded ankle-deep in the ocean of space. Now it's finally time to swim. (applause) The warp five engine wouldn't be a reality without men like Doctor Cochrane and Henry Archer, who worked so hard to develop it. So it's only fitting that Henry's son, Jonathan Archer, will command the first starship powered by that engine. (applause as Archer and senior officers leave) Rather than quoting Doctor Cochrane, I think we should listen to his own words from the dedication ceremony for the Warp Five Complex thirty two years ago. 
COCHRANE [on screen] On this site, a powerful engine will be built. An engine that will someday help us travel a hundred times faster than we can today. (as the officers take their bridge stations) Imagine it. Thousands of inhabited planets at our fingertips. And we'll be able to explore those strange new worlds and seek out new life and new civilizations. This engine will let us go boldly where no man has gone before. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Take her out, Mister Mayweather. Straight and steady. 
(Umbilicals are released and Enterprise glides out of spacedock) 
[Engineering]
ARCHER [OC]: How are we doing, Trip? 
TUCKER: Ready when you are. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Prepare for warp.
TRAVIS: Course laid in, sir. Request permission to get underway. 
T'POL: The coordinates are off by point two degrees. 
ARCHER: Thank you. Let's go. 
[Temporal Communication Chamber]
FUTURE MAN: Where's Klaang? 
SILIK: The humans have him. 
FUTURE MAN: Did you lose anyone else? 
SILIK: Two of my soldiers were killed. One of them was a friend. Can you prevent it? 
FUTURE MAN: Our agreement doesn't provide for correcting mistakes. Recover the evidence. 
SILIK: I will, I promise you. When will we speak again? 
FUTURE MAN: Don't be concerned with when. 
[Sickbay]
ARCHER: Love what you've done with the place. 
PHLOX: Those are immunocytic gel worms. Try not to shake them. 
ARCHER: What'd you think of Earth? 
PHLOX: Intriguing. I especially liked the Chinese food. Have you ever tried it? 
ARCHER: I've lived in San Francisco all my life. 
PHLOX: Anatomically, you humans are somewhat simplistic, but what you lack biologically you make up for with your charming optimism, not to mention your egg drop soup. Be very careful with that. 
ARCHER: What's in there? 
PHLOX: An Altarian marsupial. Their droppings contain the greatest concentration of regenerative enzymes found anywhere. 
ARCHER: Their droppings? 
PHLOX: If you're going to try to embrace new worlds you must try to embrace new ideas. That's why the Vulcans initiated the Interspecies Medical Exchange. There's a lot to be learned. 
ARCHER: I'm sorry I had to take you away from your programme but, our doctors haven't even heard of a Klingon. 
PHLOX: Please, no apologies. What better time to study human beings than when they're under pressure? It's a rare opportunity. And your Klingon friend. I've never had a chance to examine a living one before. 
ARCHER: Ensign Mayweather tells me we'll be to Kronos in about eighty hours. Any chance he'll be conscious by then? 
PHLOX: There's a chance he'll be conscious within the next ten minutes. Just not a very good one. 
ARCHER: Eighty hours, Doctor. If he doesn't walk off this ship on his own two feet, he doesn't stand much of a chance. 
PHLOX: I'll do the best I can. Optimism, Captain! 
[Jefferies tube]
TUCKER: You're upside down, Ensign. 
TRAVIS: (sitting on ceiling) Yes, sir. 
TUCKER: Care to explain why? 
TRAVIS: When I was a kid, we called it the sweet spot. Every ship's got one. 
TUCKER: Sweet spot? 
TRAVIS: It's usually about halfway between the grav-generator and the bow plate. Grab a hold of the hatch. No, on either side. Now push off. Push off. 
TUCKER: Wow! (finds himself in zero gravity before falling onto the ceiling) 
TRAVIS: It takes practice. Ever slept in zero G? 
TUCKER: Slept? 
TRAVIS: It's just like being back in the womb.
TUCKER: The Captain tells me you've been to Trillius Prime. 
TRAVIS: It took the fourth, fifth and sixth grades to get there. I've also been to Draylax and both the Denebian moons. 
TUCKER: I've only been to one inhabited planet besides Earth. Nothing there but dust-dwelling ticks. I've heard the women on Draylax have. 
TRAVIS: Three. It's true. 
TUCKER: You know that first-hand? 
TRAVIS: First-hand, second-hand, third-hand. 
TUCKER: I guess growing up a boomer has its advantages. 
[Mess hall]
FLETCHER: Got an empty seat here, Commander. 
TUCKER: Sorry. Dinner with the boss tonight. 
[Captain's mess]
ARCHER: The Grand Canyon? 
T'POL: No. 
ARCHER: Big Sur Aquarium? 
T'POL: Sightseeing was not one of my assignments. 
ARCHER: All work and no play. Everyone should get out for a little fun now and then. 
T'POL: All our recreational needs are provided at the Compound. 
ARCHER: Come in. 
TUCKER: You should've started without me.
ARCHER: Sit down T'Pol tells me she's been living at the Vulcan Compound in Sausalito. 
TUCKER: No kidding. I lived a few blocks from there when I first joined Starfleet. Great parties at the Vulcan Compound. 
ARCHER: (as T'Pol tries to eat a bread stick with knife and fork) It might be a little easier using your fingers.
T'POL: Vulcans don't touch food with their hands. 
TUCKER: Can't wait to see you tackle the spare ribs.
ARCHER: Don't worry. We know you're a vegetarian. 
TUCKER: Looks delicious. Tell Chef I said thanks. 
STEWARD: Of course, sir. 
T'POL: You humans claim to be enlightened, yet you still consume the flesh of animals. 
TUCKER: Grandma taught me never to judge a species by their eating habits. 
ARCHER: Enlightened may be too strong a word, but if you'd been on Earth fifty years ago, I think you'd be impressed by what we've gotten done. 
T'POL: You have yet to embrace either patience or logic. You remain impulsive carnivores. 
TUCKER: Yeah? How about war, disease, hunger. Pretty much wiped 'em out in less than two generations. I wouldn't call that small potatoes. 
T'POL: It remains to be seen whether humanity will revert to its baser instincts. 
TUCKER: Well, we used to have cannibals on Earth. Who knows how far we'll revert? Lucky this isn't a long mission. 
ARCHER: Human instinct is pretty strong. You can't expect us to change overnight. 
T'POL: With proper discipline, anything's possible. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Warp four point three, sir. 
REED: Not much of a change. 
HOSHI: I don't know. Does anybody else feel that? 
ARCHER: Feel what? 
HOSHI: Those vibrations, like little tremors. 
T'POL: You're imagining it. 
ARCHER: Bring us to four four, Ensign. 
HOSHI: There! What do you call that? 
REED: The deflector's sequencing. It's perfectly normal. 
T'POL: Perhaps you'd like to go to your quarters and lie down? 
HOSHI: Ponfo mirann. 
T'POL: I was instructed to speak English during this voyage, and I'd appreciate it if you'd respect that. 
ARCHER: It's easy to get a little jumpy when you're travelling at thirty million kilometres a second. Should be old hat in a week's time. Archer. 
PHLOX [OC]: This is Doctor Phlox, Captain. Our patient is regaining consciousness. 
ARCHER: On my way. Hoshi. 
[Sickbay]
KLAANG: Pung ghap! Pung ghap! 
ARCHER: What's wrong? 
HOSHI: The translator. It's not locking onto his dialect. The syntax won't align. 
KLAANG: DujDaj Hegh! 
ARCHER: Tell him we're taking him home. 
HOSHI: Ingan Hoch juH. 
KLAANG: Tujpa'qyl Dun. 
HOSHI: He wants to know who we are. Ou'ghewme Enterpise. PugloD. 
KLAANG: Nenta lupHom. 
HOSHI: LupHom. Ship. He's asking for his ship back. 
ARCHER: Say it was destroyed. 
HOSHI: SonchI. 
KLAANG: Vengen Sto'vo'kor Dos! 
HOSHI: I'm not sure, but I think he's saying something about eating the afterlife? 
ARCHER: Try the translator again. 
HOSHI: I'm going to need to run what we've got through the phonetic processor. 
KLAANG: MajOa blmoHgu! 
HOSHI: He says his wife has grown ugly? I'm sorry, Captain. I'm doing the best I can. 
PHLOX: Excuse me. His pre-frontal cortex is hyperstimulated. I doubt he has any idea what he's saying. 
KLAANG: HljolOaOqu'na! 
HOSHI: I think the Doctor's right, Captain, unless stinky boots has something to do with all this. 
KLAANG: OaOgu'na! 
HOSHI: That's the warp reactor again, right? 
KLAANG: OaOgu'na! 
ARCHER: Bridge, report. 
T'POL [OC]: We've dropped out of warp, sir. Main power is 
(Everything switches off.) 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: We're losing power on all decks. 
REED: I think I just saw something off the starboard bow. 
T'POL: What? 
REED: I don't know. It might have just been the sensors going down.
(Aliens are crawling through the ship, along the bulkheads.) 
[Sickbay]
ARCHER: Auxiliary power should have kicked in by now. Do you know how to tell him to shut up? 
HOSHI: Shut up! (but Klaang keeps talking) 
ARCHER: You may have to sedate him. I need to get to the Bridge. 
HOSHI: Captain! There's someone here. 
(All use flashlights to check around until Archer spots one on the ceiling.) 
ARCHER: Crewman! 
(He fires and misses.) 
KLAANG: Suliban. 
(There is a fight, Archer picks up the fallen rifle and shoots the alien. Another one falls from the ceiling onto Klaang. The lights come back on to reveal an empty biobed and an alien corpse.) 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: We've got state of the art sensors. Why the hell didn't we detect them? 
TRAVIS: Mister Reed thought he detected something right before we lost power. 
REED: The starboard sensor logs recorded a spatial disturbance.
TUCKER: Looks more like a glitch. 
HOSHI: Those weren't glitches in Sickbay. 
ARCHER: I want a complete analysis of that disturbance. Where do we stand on weapons? 
REED: I still have to tune the targeting scanners. 
ARCHER: What're you waiting for? 
T'POL: Captain. 
ARCHER: The Klingon seemed to know who they were. See if you can translate what he said. 
HOSHI: Right away. 
T'POL: Captain. There's no way you could have anticipated this. I'm sure Ambassador Soval will understand. 
ARCHER: You're the Science Officer. Why don't you help Trip with that analysis? 
T'POL: The astrometric computer in San Francisco will be far more effective. 
ARCHER: We're not going to San Francisco, so make do with what we've got here. 
T'POL: You've lost the Klingon. Your mission is over. 
ARCHER: I didn't lose the Klingon. He was taken, and I'm going to find out who took him. 
T'POL: How do you plan to do that? Space is very big, Captain. A shadow on your sensors won't help you find them. This is a foolish mission. 
ARCHER: Come with me. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: I'm not interested in what you think about this mission so take your Vulcan cynicism and bury it along with your repressed emotions. 
T'POL: Your reaction to this situation is a perfect example of why your species should remain in its own star system. 
ARCHER: I've been listening to you Vulcans tell us what not to do all my entire life. I watched my father work his ass off while your scientists held back just enough information to keep him from succeeding. He deserved to see that launch. You may have life spans of two hundred years, we don't. 
T'POL: You are going to be contacting Starfleet to advise them of our situation. 
ARCHER: No, I'm not. And neither are you. Now get the hell out there and make yourself useful. 
[Sickbay]
ARCHER: What have you found, Doctor? 
PHLOX: Mister Klaang was right about one thing. He's a Suliban. But unless I'm mistaken, he's no ordinary one.
ARCHER: Meaning? 
PHLOX: His DNA is Suliban but his anatomy has been altered. Look at this lung. Five bronchial lobes, you see. It should only have three. And look at the alveoli clusters. They've been modified to process different kinds of atmospheres. 
ARCHER: Are you saying he's some kind of a mutant? 
PHLOX: Yes, I suppose I am, but this was no accident, no freak of nature. This man was the recipient of some very sophisticated genetic engineering. Watch this. Subcutaneous pigment sacs. A bio-mimetic garment. And, the eyes are my favorite. Compound retinas. He most likely saw things even your sensors couldn't detect. 
ARCHER: It's not in their genome? 
PHLOX: No, certainly not. The Suliban are no more evolved than humans. It is very impressive work, though. I've never seen anything quite like it. 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: How about this? 
T'POL: It's just background noise. Your sensors aren't capable of isolating plasma decay. 
TUCKER: How can you be so damn sure what our sensors can do? 
T'POL: Vulcan children play with toys that are more sophisticated. 
TUCKER: You know, some people say that you Vulcans do nothing but patronise us, but if they were here now, if they could see how far you're bending over backwards to help me, they'd eat their words. 
T'POL: Your Captain's mission was to return the Klingon to his people. He no longer has the Klingon. 
TUCKER: I realize he's only a simple Earthling but did it ever occur to you that he might know what he's doing? It's no secret Starfleet hasn't been around too long. God knows you remind us of that every chance you get, but does that mean the man who's been put in charge of this mission doesn't deserve our support? Then again, loyalty's an emotion, isn't it? 
ARCHER: Any luck? 
TUCKER: Not really. 
T'POL: My analysis of the spatial disturbance Mister Reed saw indicates a stealth vessel with a tricyclic plasma drive. 
TUCKER: If we can figure out the decay rate of their plasma, we'll be able to find their warp trail. 
T'POL: Unfortunately, your sensors were not designed to measure plasma decay. 
HOSHI: Are you sure it's safe to stand so close to that? 
ARCHER: What've you got? 
HOSHI: I've managed to translate most of what Klaang said, but none of it makes sense. 
ARCHER: Nothing about the Suliban? 
HOSHI: Nope. 
ARCHER: Does that name ring a bell to you? 
T'POL: They're a somewhat primitive species from Sector three six four one, but they've never posed a threat. 
ARCHER: Well, they have now. Did he say anything about Earth? 
HOSHI: The word's not even in their database. It's all there. There were only four words I couldn't translate. probably just proper nouns. 
ARCHER: Jelik, Sarin, Rigel, Tholia. Anything sound familiar? T'Pol? 
T'POL: Rigel is a planetary system approximately fifteen light years from our present position. 
ARCHER: Why the hesitation? 
T'POL: According to the navigational logs salvaged from Klaang's ship, Rigel ten was the last place he stopped before crashing on your planet. 
ARCHER: Why do I get the feeling you weren't going to share that little piece of information? 
T'POL: I wasn't authorised to reveal the details of our findings. 
ARCHER: The next time I learn you're withholding something, you're going to spend the rest of this voyage confined to some very cramped quarters. Understood? Archer to helm.
TRAVIS [OC]: Mayweather. 
ARCHER: Go into the Vulcan star charts and find a system called Rigel, then set a course for the tenth planet. 
TRAVIS [OC}: Yes, sir. 
[Suliban Helix]
SILIK: (in Klingon) Where is it? Where is it! 
KLAANG: {Du bogh) I don't know. 
SILIK: (Chonta qhe'tor. Q.a) We're not going to harm you. Tell me where it is. 
KLAANG: (Du Bogh) I don't know. 
SILIK: Are you certain he's telling the truth? 
DOCTOR: Absolutely certain. The drugs are working. 
SILIK: {Hovme lupHom. Pente daO? Enterprise DaHjaj?) Did you leave it on your ship? Is it on Enterprise? 
KLAANG: {Du boqh guch)I don't know what you're looking for. 
SILIK: {BiHeqh Rigel wo'tul) What were you doing on Rigel ten? 
KLAANG: (MajQa tlharn) I was sent to meet someone. 
SILIK: {Doh?) Who. 
KLAANG: {MajQa rot. Sarin Poh nI) A Suliban female named Sarin. 
SILIK: {Dah Sarin saj'Kogh?) And what did Sarin give you? 
KLAANG: {RQgh) Nothing. 
SILIK: Keep him alive while I'm gone. 
[Launch bay]
ARCHER: As soon as we've tied down, we'll be descending into the trade complex. It has thirty-six levels. 
T'POL: Your translators have been programmed for Rigelian. However, you'll encounter numerous other species. Many of them are known to be impatient with newcomers. None of them have seen a human before. You have a tendency to be gregarious. I suggest you try to restrain that tendency. 
TUCKER: You forgot to warn us about drinking the water. 
T'POL: Doctor Phlox isn't concerned with the food and water, but he does caution against intimate contact. 
ARCHER: The Vulcans told us Klaang was a courier. If he was there to get something, then whoever gave it to him might know why he was taken. It was only a few days ago. A seven foot Klingon doesn't go unnoticed. 
(The shuttlepod launches and descends through a blizzard to the landing platform.) 
[Rigel Trade Complex]
(There are sounds coming from behind a closed door.)
TUCKER: 
What in the world? 
T'POL: It's nothing that concerns us. 
[deleted scene - Docking Control Centre]
DOCK MASTER: Five or six days ago? Do you realise how much traffic we process in a single day? 
ARCHER: This was a one man Klingon scout ship. 
DOCK MASTER: What species are you? 
ARCHER: Humans. We're called humans. 
DOCK MASTER: (responding to alarm) Elkan nine, raise your approach vector by point two radiants. It was seven days ago. A K'toch class vessel. 
ARCHER: Does it say who he was here to see? 
DOCK MASTER: What is says is that he arrived at docking port six and was given a level one biohazard clearance. 
ARCHER: You don't seem to be very interested in what people do here. 
DOCK MASTER: Our visitors value their privacy. It wouldn't be very tusoropko tuprova pro the business they're in. 
HOSHI: It's all right. Rigelian uses a pronominal base. The translator's just reprocessing the syntax. 
ARCHER: Do you have any records of a Suliban vessel coming in around the same time? 
DOCK MASTER: Suliban. I don't know that word. Your device must still be malfunctioning. 
[Rigel Trade Complex]
(Elsewhere, Reed and Travis are gawping at two females eating butterflies with very prehensile tongues.) 
ALIEN: Would you like to meet them? I can arrange it. 
TRAVIS: Is this where you saw Klaang? 
ALIEN: I'll show you where, but first you should enjoy yourselves. Which one would you prefer? 
TRAVIS: We should get going. 
REED: Are those real butterflies, or some kind of holograms? 
TRAVIS: Sir. 
REED: Yes. Absolutely. Right. 
(Tucker and T'Pol are in a waiting room with lots of other people. One woman is dealing with a child who keeps needing to use a respirator) 
T'POL: T'Pol to Archer. 
ARCHER [OC]: Go ahead. 
TUCKER: Hey. 
T'POL: Central Security claims to have no record of Klaang, but they told me about an enclave on level nineteen where Klingons have been known to go. Something about live food. 
ARCHER [OC]: Where on level nineteen? 
T'POL: The easternmost subsection, by the geothermal shafts. 
ARCHER [OC]: I'll meet you there as soon as I can. Archer out. 
TUCKER: (watching as the woman keeps taking the respirator away from the child, who starts gasping each time) What are you doing? Leave the kid alone! 
T'POL: Don't get involved. 
TUCKER: Do you see what she's doing? He's going to suffocate! 
T'POL: They're Lorillians. Before the age of four, they can only breathe methyloxide. The mother is simply weaning her son. 
TUCKER: Could've fooled me. 
T'POL: Humans can't refrain from drawing conclusions. You should learn to objectify other cultures, so you know when to interfere, and when not to. 
[deleted scene]
;
ALIEN: Gentlemen, gentlemen. Perhaps you would prefer to watch the inter-species performance? 
TRAVIS: You don't know anything about Klaang, do you. 
ALIEN: Of course I do, but there's no reason to hurry. 
REED: Inter-species performance? 
TRAVIS: Lieutenant, this man has no intention of helping us. 
REED: Perhaps another time. 
TRAVIS: (as they walk away) I can't believe we fell for that. 
REED: We are explorers. 
[Level nineteen}
HOSHI: Isn't an enclave supposed to have people? 
ARCHER: Enclave can mean a lot of things. 
HOSHI: T'Pol said something about live food. I don't see any restaurants.
ARCHER: Hello! Excuse me! 
HOSHI: Ha'quj jeg! They looked Klingon to me. 
ARCHER: Archer to T'Pol. T'Pol, come in. 
HOSHI: Maybe we should get back to where there are more people. 
ARCHER: There are plenty of people right here. 
(He powers up his phase pistol.) 
ARCHER: Stay behind me. 
(They get jumped by a group of Suliban and hustled away. Hoshi is put into a holding area with Tucker and T'Pol while Archer is taken away. Elsewhere -)
SARIN: You're looking for Klaang. Why? 
ARCHER: Who the hell are you? 
SARIN: My name is Sarin. Tell me about the people who took Klaang off your ship. 
ARCHER: I was hoping you could tell me. They looked a lot like your friends outside. 
SARIN: Where were you taking him? 
ARCHER: How come you don't look like your friends? 
SARIN: Would you prefer I did? 
ARCHER: What I'd prefer is that you give me Klaang back. 
SARIN: So you could take him where? 
ARCHER: Home. We were just taking him home. You'd better be careful. I'm a lot bigger than you are. 
SARIN: If you're thinking about harming me, I'd advise against it. 
ARCHER: What are you doing? 
SARIN: Why were you taking Klaang home? 
ARCHER: You know, under different circumstances, I might be flattered by this, but.
(She kisses him, then her skin changes from human to Suliban mottled) 
ARCHER: That's never happened before. 
SARIN: I've been given the ability to measure trust, but it requires close contact. 
ARCHER: You're Suliban 
SARIN: I'm a member of the Cabal, but not any longer. The price of evolution was too high. 
ARCHER: Evolution? 
SARIN: Some of my people are so anxious to improve themselves that they've lost perspective. 
ARCHER: So you know I'm not lying to you. Now what? 
SARIN: Klaang was carrying a message to his people. 
ARCHER: How do you know that? 
SARIN: I gave it to him. 
ARCHER: What kind of message? 
SARIN: The Suliban have been staging attacks within the Klingon Empire, making it appear that one faction is attacking another. Klaang was bringing proof of this to his High Council. Without that proof, the Empire could be thrown into chaos. 
ARCHER: Why would the Suliban want that? 
SARIN: The Cabal doesn't make decisions on its own. They're simply soldiers fighting a Temporal Cold War. 
ARCHER: Temporal? You've lost me. 
SARIN: They're taking orders from the distant future. 
ARCHER: What? 
SARIN: We can help you find Klaang but we don't have a starship. You'll have to take us with you. 
(Weapons fire. They head for cover and return fire. Sarin releases the others and gives them their weapons back.)
SARIN:  Where's your vessel? 
ARCHER: On the roof. Docking port three. 
SARIN: This way. 
(As they head onto an elevator platform, Silik shoots Sarin in the back) 
ARCHER: Trip! 
SARIN: Find Klaang. 
(Sarin dies) 
[Rooftop]
HOSHI: Where's the pod? 
TUCKER: Over here! 
T'POL: No, it's this way! 
ARCHER: (accepting T'Pol's direction) Come on! Lieutenant Reed, this is Archer. Come in. 
REED [OC]: You're breaking up, can't read. 
ARCHER: We're on the roof. You need to get up here as quickly 
[Shuttlepod]
ARCHER [OC]: as you can. 
REED: We've been trying to reach you, Captain. We're back in the shuttle. 
TRAVIS: Ask him where they are. This storm's getting worse. 
REED: Captain, what's your location? The weather is definitely 
[Rooftop]
(Nothing but static coming over the communicator.) 
HOSHI: Great! 
TUCKER: Like I said, it's back there. 
(Weapons fire. They dive for cover) 
[Shuttlepod]
REED: I've never seen lightning in a snowstorm before. 
TRAVIS: The storm's kicking up too much interference. I can't isolate human biosigns. They could be anywhere in the complex.
REED: Try Vulcan biosigns. 
TRAVIS: (looking out of window) I found her. 
(They take off, and fly over to the fight. T'Pol slips and falls in the snow when she gets out again.) 
[Rooftop]
ARCHER: Get Hoshi to the ship. Now! 
(He runs over to give T'Pol cover.) 
ARCHER: Go! 
T'POL: Enterprise needs its Captain! Give me the weapons! 
ARCHER: I said go! 
(She obeys but Archer gets shot in the leg. The two men drag him safely aboard.) 
[Shuttlepod]
TRAVIS: The starboard thruster's down! 
T'POL: Ignore it. Take us up. 
[Rooftop]
SILIK: We need instructions. 
[Shuttlepod]
T'POL: Open a channel. Sub-Commander T'Pol to Enterprise. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Go ahead. 
T'POL: We'll be docking in four minutes. Have Doctor Phlox meet us in decon. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Acknowledged. Is someone wounded? 
T'POL: The Captain. I'm taking command of Enterprise. 
[Archer's memory - beach]
(The radio controlled model spaceship is now in flight.) 
JONATHAN: I can't do it!
FATHER: Yes, you can. Take her up, straight and steady. 
(Instead, it nose-dives into the sand.) 
JONATHAN: Damn
.
FATHER: You can't be afraid of the wind. Learn to trust it. 
[Decon chamber]
(The doctor is watching through window as Tucker and T'Pol undress.) 
PHLOX: It shouldn't take more than a few moments. 
TUCKER: Is this really necessary? 
PHLOX: The others scanned negative. You two, unfortunately, were exposed to a protocystian spore. I've loaded the appropriate decon gel into compartment B. 
T'POL: Tell Mister Mayweather to prepare to leave orbit. 
TUCKER: How's the Captain? 
PHLOX: I'm treating his wound. 
TUCKER: Will he be all right? 
PHLOX: Eventually. 
(The pair start smearing gel over themselves and each other.) 
TUCKER: Correct me if I'm wrong, but aren't you just kind of an observer on this mission? I don't remember anyone telling me you were a member of Starfleet. 
T'POL: My Vulcan rank supersedes yours. 
TUCKER: Apples and oranges. This is an Earth vessel. You're in no position to take command. 
T'POL: As soon as we're through here, I'll contact Ambassador Soval. He'll speak to your superiors and I'm certain they'll support my authority in this situation. 
TUCKER: You must really be proud of yourself. You can put an end to this mission while the Captain's still unconscious in Sickbay. You won't even have to look him in the eye. 
T'POL: Your precious cargo was stolen. three Suliban, perhaps more, were killed, and Captain Archer has been seriously wounded. It seems to me this mission has put an end to itself. Turn around. 
TUCKER: Let's say you're right. Let's say we screwed up just like you always knew we would. It's still a pretty good bet that whoever blew that hole in the Captain's leg is connected somehow to the people who took Klaang. 
T'POL: I fail to see your point. 
TUCKER: Captain Archer deserves a chance to see this through. If you knew him, you'd realise that's what he's about. He needs to finish what he starts. His daddy was the same way. 
T'POL: You obviously share your Captain's belief that my people were responsible for impeding Henry Archer's accomplishments. 
TUCKER: He only wanted to see his engine fly. They never even gave him a chance to fail. Here you are, thirty years later, proving just how consistent you Vulcans can be. 
[Sickbay]
(Phlox removing a creature from Archer's leg.)
PHLOX: Very nice, very nice. Your myofibres are fusing beautifully. 
ARCHER: How long have? 
PHLOX: Less than six hours. I thought it best to keep you sedated while the osmotic eel cauterized your wound.
ARCHER: Thanks. 
TUCKER: How are you doing, Captain? 
ARCHER: That depends. What's been going on the last six hours? 
T'POL: As your highest ranking officer I assumed command while you were incapacitated. 
ARCHER: Are we underway? (Tucker nods) You didn't waste much time, did you? 
T'POL: Is he fit to resume command? 
PHLOX: As long as he returns for more eel therapy tomorrow. 
ARCHER: How long before we get back to Earth? 
TUCKER: Earth, sir? 
T'POL: We're currently tracking the Suliban vessel that left Rigel shortly after you were injured. 
ARCHER: You got their plasma decay rate? 
T'POL: With Mister Tucker's assistance, I modified the sensors. You now have the resolution to detect their warp trail. 
ARCHER: What happened to this is a foolish mission? 
T'POL: It is a foolish mission. The Suliban are clearly a hostile race with technology far superior to yours, but as acting Captain, I was obligated to anticipate your wishes. 
ARCHER: As acting Captain, you could've done whatever the hell you wanted to do. 
T'POL: I should return to the Bridge. 
ARCHER: Dismissed. 
(T'Pol leaves.) 
TUCKER: Modifying the sensors was her idea, sir. 
[deleted scene - Bridge]
HOSHI: (at a panel behind Reed's station) What are the symptoms of frostbite? 
REED: Your appendages blister, peel and turn gangrenous. 
HOSHI: I think I have frostbite. 
REED: Let me see. (takes her hands) Doctor Phlox may have to amputate. 
HOSHI: I never had to worry about frostbite in Brazil. 
TRAVIS: They're getting too far ahead of us. 
T'POL: Match their speed. 
TRAVIS: I'm not authorised to go beyond four four. 
[deleted scene - Engineering]
TUCKER: Engineering. 
T'POL [OC]: Mister Tucker. 
[deleted scene - Bridge]
T'POL: Would you please give the helmsman permission to go to warp four point five. 
[deleted scene - Engineering]
TUCKER: It's okay, Travis. I'll keep an eye on the engine. 
[Archer's quarters]
ARCHER: Enterprise Starlog, Captain Jonathan Archer. April 16th, 2161. We've been tracking the Suliban ship for ten hours, thanks to our Science Officer, who came up with a way to tweak the sensors. Computer, pause. I save her life, and now she's helping us with the mission. One good turn deserves another doesn't sound very Vulcan. Resume log. I have no reason to believe that Klaang is still alive but if what the Suliban woman told me is true, it's crucial that we try to find him. Computer, pause. (to Porthos) Have you ever known a Vulcan to return a favour? No, neither have I. Resume log. I still haven't decided whether to ask Sub-Commander T'Pol about this Temporal Cold War. My instincts tell me not to trust her. Computer, pause. Archer to T'Pol. Report. 
T'POL [OC]: If you're feeling well enough to come to the Bridge, Captain, now would be a good time. 
[Bridge]
(A large orange planet fills the viewscreen.) 
T'POL: It's a gas giant. 
ARCHER: From the looks of it, a class six or seven.
T'POL: Class seven. The Suliban vessel dropped to impulse a few hours ago and altered course. Their new heading took them through its outer radiation belt. 
ARCHER: We've lost them. 
T'POL: Yes. 
ARCHER: Move us in closer. Anything? 
REED: The radiation's dissipated their warp trail. I'm only picking up fragments.
ARCHER: You finished helping us? 
T'POL: Lieutenant, run a spectral analysis of the fragments. 
REED: There's too much distortion. The decay rates don't even match. 
T'POL: Calculate the trajectory of each fragment.
REED: Sir? 
ARCHER: You heard her. Recalibrate the sensor array. Narrow band, short to mid range. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
T'POL: Measure the particle density of the thermosphere. 
ARCHER: Your instincts were right. Those fragments weren't from one Suliban ship 
T'POL: They were from fourteen, and all within the last six hours. I believe we have found what we're looking for. 
ARCHER: How are your targeting scanners? 
REED: Aligned and ready, sir. 
ARCHER: Bring the weapons online and polarise the hull plating. Lay in a sixty degree vector. We're going in. 
[Temporal communication chamber]
FUTURE MAN: Did Sarin give them anything? 
SILIK: I don't know. 
FUTURE MAN: What do you know? 
SILIK: They followed us here. 
FUTURE MAN: Looking for Klaang, or for you? 
SILIK: I don't know but I will destroy them before they locate the Helix. 
FUTURE MAN: We didn't plan to involve the humans or the Vulcans. Not yet. Sarin's message cannot reach Kronos. If the humans have it, you must stop them. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: Sensor resolution's falling off at about twelve kilometres. 
ARCHER: Travis? 
TRAVIS: I'm okay, Captain 
T'POL: Our situation should improve. We're about to break through the cyclohexane layer. 
ARCHER: (ship shudders) I wouldn't exactly call this an improvement. 
T'POL: Liquid phosphorous. I wouldn't have expected that beneath a layer of cyclohexane. 
HOSHI: You might think about recommending seat belts when we get home. 
ARCHER: It's just a little bad weather. (they move into a clear layer) 
HOSHI: We've got sensors. 
ARCHER: Level off. Go to long range scans. 
T'POL: I'm detecting two vessels bearing one one nine mark seven. 
ARCHER: Put it up. 
REED: Impulse and warp engines. 
ARCHER: What kind of weapons? 
REED: We're too far away. 
TRAVIS: Sir, I'm picking up something at three forty two mark twelve. It's a lot bigger. 
ARCHER: (viewscreen shows a spacedock type structure) All sensors. Get whatever you can. Go tighter. Bio-signs? 
HOSHI: Over three thousand, but I can't isolate a Klingon. If there is one. (weapons fire hits Enterprise) 
REED: That was a particle weapon, sir. 
TUCKER [OC]: Bridge, we're taking 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: damage down here. What's going on? 
ARCHER [OC]: Just a little 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: trouble with the bad guys. 
T'POL: I suggest we return to the phosphorous layer. 
ARCHER: Take us up. 
T'POL: Captain. 
ARCHER: What've you got? 
T'POL: It appears to be an aggregate structure comprised of hundreds of vessels. They're held in place by an interlocking system of magnetic seals. 
HOSHI: There, right there. These bio-readings are not Suliban. 
T'POL: We can't be certain they're Klingon. 
ARCHER: Even if it is Klaang, we'd have a tough time getting him out of there 
REED: We could always try the transporting device. 
ARCHER: We've risked too much to bring him back inside out. Would the grappler work in a liquid atmosphere? 
REED: I believe so. 
ARCHER: Bring it online. One more time, Mister Mayweather. 
(Enterprise descends into the clear air, exchanging weapons fire with the small pods) 
REED: The ventral plating's down! 
ARCHER: Hold your position. 
REED: The lead ship's closing. Seven thousand metres. Six thousand. 
T'POL: We should ascend. 
ARCHER: Hold your position. 
REED: One thousand metres. Forward plating's offline. 
ARCHER: Now, Mister Reed. 
(a turret comes out from Enterprise's underside and fires two grappling hooks at the pod then quickly reels it in. The pilot ejects with just a parachute) 
REED: The ship's in the launch bay. 
[Situation room]
TUCKER: Ask me another one. 
TRAVIS: All right. What's this? 
TUCKER: The pitch control. 
TRAVIS: No, that's the pitch control. This is the guidance system. 
TUCKER: Pitch control. Guidance system. Got it. 
TRAVIS: The docking interface. How do you deploy it? 
ARCHER: Release the inertial clamps here, here, and here then initialize the coaxial ports.
TRAVIS: Good. Where's the auxiliary throttle? 
TUCKER: Hmm. It's not this one 
TRAVIS: With all due respect to Commander Tucker, I'm pretty sure I could fly this thing, sir. 
ARCHER: I don't doubt it, but I need you here. 
TUCKER: There, that's it. The auxiliary throttle. 
T'POL: Captain, That charge contained a proximity sweep. If we remain here, they're going to locate us. 
ARCHER: You're gonna have to speed this up a little, Travis. 
TUCKER: How complicated can it be? Up, down, forward, reverse. We'll figure it out. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: We'll be back before you know it. Have Mayweather plot a course for Kronos. 
T'POL: There's a Vulcan ship less than two days away. It's illogical to attempt this alone. 
ARCHER: I was beginning to think you understood why we have to do this alone. 
T'POL: You'll have other opportunities to demonstrate your independence.
ARCHER: Never put off 'til tomorrow. 
T'POL: You both could be killed. 
ARCHER: Am I sensing concern? Last time I checked, that was considered an emotion. 
T'POL: If anything happens to either of you, the Vulcan High Command will hold me responsible. 
ARCHER: Come in. You finished? 
REED: Sir. 
(Reed opens a case to reveal its contents.) 
REED: This should reverse the polarity of any mag-lock within a hundred metres. Once you've set the sequence, you'll have five seconds. One more thing. 
(He opens a second case.) 
ARCHER: Ah. Our new weapons. 
REED: They're called phase pistols. They have two settings, stun and kill. It would be best not to confuse them. 
ARCHER: Time to go. The ship is yours. 
(The Suliban pod is launched) 
[Suliban pod]
ARCHER: What's that? 
TUCKER: Travis said not to worry about that panel. 
ARCHER: That's reassuring. 
[Bridge]
REED: Hold on. 
TRAVIS: That one was a lot closer. 
REED: If we change our position, they'll have to start from scratch. 
T'POL: If we change our position, the Captain will have no way of finding us. 
[Suliban pod]
TUCKER: I think we're there. 
ARCHER: Bring the docking interface online. The coaxial ports. 
TUCKER: Open. 
ARCHER: Let's go. 
TUCKER: Where is it? It was right here. 
ARCHER: Bank starboard, ninety degrees. 
TUCKER: There you are. 
ARCHER: That's the upper support radius. Drop down right below it. Start a counter clockwise sweep. A little more. A little more. (they bump another pod) Right there. 
[Suliban Helix]
(They dock, the front hatch opens and they get out with their case of gizmos.) 
ARCHER: (firing at a passing Suliban) Stun seems to work. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: (wincing from noise in her earpiece) Grab on to something. 
(A big bang rocks the ship.) 
REED: This is ridiculous! If we don't move the ship, Captain Archer won't have anything to look for when he gets back. 
T'POL: We're going to need that ear of yours. Move us away five kilometres. 
TRAVIS: In what direction? 
T'POL: Any direction. 
[Suliban Helix]
(Klaang is strapped to a chair with wires attached to him.) 
TUCKER: This is going be easier than I thought. It's okay. We're getting you off this thing. 
(Archer points his weapon as Klaang pushes Tucker away and growls.) 
ARCHER: I really don't want to have to carry you out of here. You okay? I think he gets the idea. Give him a hand. 
[Suliban Helix corridor]
KLAANG: Qu'taw bob. 
ARCHER: Be quiet. 
(Klaang mutters as they take cover from Suliban weapons.) 
TUCKER: You tell him, big guy. 
ARCHER: Give me the box. 
(Klaang goes hand to hand with a Suliban.)
TUCKER: Thanks.
ARCHER: Get to the ship. I'll be right behind you. 
(He sets the magnetic unlocking device, then discovers just how many pieces the structure is really made of. Forcefields activate to stop atmosphere escaping, and thousands of pods fall off a central spacedock shaped structure.) 
{Suliban pod]
TUCKER: Captain? 
ARCHER [OC]: It worked, Trip. 
TUCKER: Where are you? 
[Suliban Helix]
ARCHER: Still on the central core. Get Klaang back to Enterprise. 
[Suliban pod]
TUCKER: What about you, sir? 
ARCHER [OC]: Get him to the ship. You can come back for me. 
TUCKER: It's going to be hard to isolate your biosigns, so stay as far away from the Suliban. 
[Suliban Helix]
TUCKER [OC]: As you can. 
ARCHER: Believe me, I'll try. 
[Suliban pod]
KLAANG: RaQ'o jadICH! 
TUCKER: I don't particularly like the way you smell, either. 
KLAANG: MajQa! 
TUCKER: I don't get it, this is right where they're supposed to be. 
[Bridge]
REED: The charges are getting closer again. 
T'POL: Another five kilometres, Lieutenant. 
TRAVIS: At this rate, the Captain'll never find us. 
HOSHI: Wait a minute, I think I've got something. 
T'POL: Amplify it. 
HOSHI: It's Commander Tucker. 
REED: All I hear is noise. 
HOSHI: It's just a narrow notch in the mid-range. He says he's about to ignite his thruster exhaust.
T'POL: Coordinates, one fifty eight mark one three. 
TRAVIS: Laid in. 
T'POL: Ahead, fifty kph. (to Hoshi) Shaya tonat. 
HOSHI: You're welcome. 
TRAVIS: Two kilometres, dead ahead. 
T'POL: Initiate docking procedures. 
HOSHI: I'm only picking up two bio-signs. One Klingon, one human. 
(Archer follows some strange readings and finds himself at the end of a corridor. A door closes behind him, there's strobing lights then a door in front opens. As he walks in, he notices there's a echo effect with his movements) 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: Turn this ship around. Now. 
T'POL: Our mission is to return the Klingon to his homeworld. Another rescue attempt could jeopardize that mission. 
TUCKER: The Captain specifically told us to come back for him. 
T'POL: As Commanding Officer, it's my job to interpret the Captain's orders. 
TUCKER: I just told you his orders. What's there to interpret? 
T'POL: Captain Archer may very well have told you to return for him later because he knew how stubborn you can be. 
TUCKER: What the hell is that supposed to mean? 
T'POL: You might've risked Klaang's life in a foolish attempt to swing back and rescue the Captain. 
TUCKER: I can't believe this! 
T'POL: The situation must be analysed logically. 
TUCKER: I don't remember the Captain analyzing anything when he went back for you on that roof. 
T'POL: That is a specious analogy.
TUCKER: Is it. 
[Temporal communication room]
SILIK [OC]: You're wasting your time. Klaang knows nothing. It would be unwise to discharge that weapon in this room. 
ARCHER: What is this room? What goes on in here? 
SILIK [OC]: You're very curious, Jon. May I call you Jon? 
ARCHER: Am I supposed to be impressed that you know my name? 
SILIK [OC]: I've learned a great deal about you. Even more than you know. 
ARCHER: Well, I guess you have me at a disadvantage. So why don't you drop this invisible man routine and let me see who I'm talking to? 
[Bridge]
REED: Hull plating's been re-polarised. 
T'POL: Stand by impulse engines. Mister Tucker, status. 
[Transporter alcove]
TUCKER: The auto-sequencer's online but annular confinement's still off by two microns. 
T'POL [OC]: That should suffice. 
TUCKER: Easy for you to say. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: If the Suliban have re-established their defences, we'll have no other option. 
[Temporal communication chamber]
SILIK [OC]: You wouldn't have come looking for Klaang if Sarin had told you what she knew. That means you're no threat to me Jon, but I do need you to leave this room. (door opens) Now. 
ARCHER: This chameleon thing is pretty fancy. Was it payment for pitting the Klingons against each other, or a trophy from your Temporal Cold War. 
SILIK: (knocks Archer down and takes his phase pistol) I was going to let you go. 
ARCHER: Really? Then you obviously don't know as much about me as you thought you did. 
SILIK: On the contrary. I could've told you what day you were going to die but I suppose that's about to change. 
(Silik fires the phase pistol, but the beam is so slow Archer easily avoids it. Instead it hits the wall and a shockwave knocks Silik down instead.) 
ARCHER: (getting his weapon back) What's the matter? No genetic tricks to keep you from getting knocked on your butt? 
SILIK: What you call tricks we call progress. Are you aware that your genome is almost identical to that of an ape? The Suliban don't share humanity's patience with natural selection. 
ARCHER: So to speed things up a little, you struck a deal with the devil. 
(He gets Silik to fire at the door, then dashes out. They both end up fighting in the strobing room. Meanwhile Enterprise is flying back to the Helix) 
[Bridge]
REED: We have four more coming up off starboard. 
T'POL: Can we dock, Ensign? 
TRAVIS: These aren't ideal conditions. 
T'POL: Mister Tucker, we're going to plan B. 
(Archer finally manages to struggle free of Silik's grasp and runs as a weapon is aimed at his back) 
T'POL: Now! 
[Transporter alcove]
TUCKER: Bridge, we've got him! Sorry, Captain. We had no other choice. 
[Klingon High Council Chamber]
CHANCELLOR: Malja'gor. 
(The door opens to reveal Klaang, with Archer, T'Pol and Hoshi.) 
KLAANG: Wo'migh Oagh! Q'ala. 
HOSHI: Something about disgracing the Empire. He says he's ready to die. 
(The Chancellor walks up to Klaang, draws a knife and cuts his palm.) 
CHANCELLOR: Pog! 
(An aide catches Klaang's blood in a vial, goes over to a machine and calls up a magnified image on a screen. There in the DNA strands are computer-style data.) 
CHANCELLOR: ChugDah hegh. Volcha va. 
ARCHER: I'll take that as a thank you. 
HOSHI: I don't think they have a word for thank you. 
ARCHER: What did he say? 
HOSHI: You don't want to know. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Come in. I've just gotten a response to the message I sent to Admiral Forrest. He enjoyed telling the Vulcan High Command about the Suliban we ran into. It isn't every day he gets to be the one dispensing information. I wanted you both to hear Starfleet's orders before I inform the crew. 
TUCKER: Orders? 
ARCHER: Your people are sending a transport to pick you up. 
T'POL: I was under the impression that Enterprise would be taking me back to Earth. 
ARCHER: It would be a little out of our way. Admiral Forrest sees no reason why we shouldn't keep going. 
TUCKER: Son of a bitch. 
ARCHER: I have a feeling Doctor Phlox won't mind staying around for a while. He's developing a fondness for the human endocrine system. 
TUCKER: I'll get double shifts on the repair work. 
ARCHER: I think that outer hull's going to need a little patching up. Let's hope that's the last time somebody takes a shot at us. 
TUCKER: Let's hope. (leaves) 
ARCHER: T'Pol, would you stick around for a minute? Ever since I can remember, I've seen Vulcans as an obstacle, always keeping us from standing on our own two feet. 
T'POL: I understand. 
ARCHER: No, I don't think you do. If I'm going to pull this off, there are a few things I have to leave behind. Things like preconceptions, holding grudges. This mission would've failed without your help. 
T'POL: I won't dispute that. 
ARCHER: I was thinking. A Vulcan Science Officer could come in handy, but if I asked you to stay it might look like I wasn't ready to do this on my own. 
T'POL: Perhaps you should add pride to your list. 
ARCHER: Perhaps I should. 
T'POL: It might be best if I were to contact my superiors and make the request myself. With your permission. 
ARCHER: Permission granted. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: I hope nobody is in a big hurry to get home. Starfleet seems to think that we're ready to begin our mission. I understand there's an inhabited planet a few light years from here. 
REED: We've detected it, sir. Sensors show a nitrogen sulfide atmosphere. 
HOSHI: Probably not humanoids? 
ARCHER: That's what we're here to find out. Prepare to break orbit and lay in a course. 
TRAVIS: I'm reading an ion storm on that trajectory, sir. Should I go around it? 
ARCHER: We can't be afraid of the wind, Ensign. Take us to warp four. 
(A young boy and his proud father watch as the model spaceship flies straight and true in the coastal breeze.) 

