Episode Number: 77
The Enterprise Transcripts - Storm Front, part one
Storm Front, part 1
Original Airdate: 8 Oct, 2004
T'POL [OC]: Previously on Enterprise. 
DANIELS 
[Future] 
: This species has technology which allows them to examine alternate timelines. They've seen this future and they want to change the outcome. 
REED 
[Armoury]
: We've got less than ten hours before this weapon reaches Earth. The captain wants to take a team aboard to destroy it. 
ARCHER 
[Weapon control area]
: Give me the charges. 
REED: I'll take care of it, sir. 
ARCHER: Don't worry. I'll be right behind you. 
(Scene of Archer running along the gantry, with explosions around him, then an external of the Xindi weapon exploding outside Earth's atmosphere.) 
REED 
[Airlock]
: Captain Archer destroyed the weapon. 
TUCKER: Where is he? Is he okay? 
REED: Captain didn't make it, Trip. 
T'POL 
[Bridge]
: Prepare a shuttlepod. I want you and Ensign Mayweather to get down to San Francisco. Find out what's wrong. 
TRAVIS 
[Shuttlepod]
: Sir. 
(Anti-aircraft flax and three propeller USAF planes come at them.) 
OFFICER 
[Field Hospital]
: Where is he? 
DOCTOR: He's been badly burned. Do you recognise the uniform? 
(Our first view of the red-eyed, grey skinned nasty alien in SS uniform.) 
[Shuttlepod]
TUCKER: This is Commander Charles Tucker of the starship Enterprise. 
(The shuttlepod continues to be strafed by gunfire.) 
TUCKER: What the hell are you people doing?
TRAVIS: Those are P-51s. I've seen them at air shows. 
TUCKER: I don't think this is an air show. 
TRAVIS: Are they breaking off? Maybe we should follow them. 
TUCKER: Try to find a landing port. Set us down. 
(Anti-aircraft fire finally hits them.) 
TRAVIS: Starboard injector. 
TUCKER: Get us out of here! 
(The pod climbs up out of range.) 
[Country road]
(A German convoy is travelling through a lightly wooded area. Archer is in the back of an open truck, with one of the SS officers.) 
OFFICER: Rita Hayworth. Veronica Lake. Betty Grable. Americans are good at making movies. They're not so good at fighting. Some day, I will go to Hollywood and I will meet Betty Grable. Maybe you will introduce me, huh? What do you think? 
ARCHER: She's not your type. 
OFFICER: You know, in Hollywood movies, Americans always win. Too bad for you, you're not in a movie. 
(There's a roadside explosion.) 
OFFICER: Insurgents! 
(A driver is shot, and the soldier with the officer. Archer keeps down.) 
OFFICER: Keep driving! Move! Move! 
(There's a roadside explosion, then gunfire. The insurgents have the upper hand, so Archer kicks the officer, knocks him out, and makes a run for it. One of the gun men shoots him too, but not seriously. He is taken prisoner by a man in a hat, blue suit and red shirt.) 
[Situation room]
CHURCHILL [OC]: As to the youth of all the Britons, I say, you cannot stop. There is no halting-place at this point. We have now reached a point in the journey where there can be no pause. We must go on. It must be world anarchy or world order. 
HOSHI: That was Winston Churchill. I picked that up half an hour ago. 
REED: Well, it's true then. We're over two hundred years in the past. 
HOSHI: I've also intercepted several military dispatches and their radio programme, something called The Shadow. 
T'POL: We should run a complete diagnostic. Start with the sensor array. 
TUCKER: This isn't a damn sensor glitch. We just pulled three fifty calibre bullets from the shuttlepod hull. And spare us the official Vulcan position about time travel. We are two hundred years in the past. Face it. 
T'POL: The first step to getting back is ascertaining how we got here. As soon as the diagnostic is complete, run a scan for any anomalies in the area. 
REED: Right away. 
(Reed leaves.) 
TRAVIS: Maybe we're here for a reason. Maybe this wasn't an accident. 
T'POL: For the moment, we can't rule out any possibilities.;
(As a crewwoman walks along a corridor, a Suliban appears, crawling along the ceiling. It's Silik. He drops to the floor when the coast is clear and walks away.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
(Two of the aliens are discussing recent events, while watching scientists through a window.) 
GHRATH: The Germans believe there are five thousand resistance fighters operating throughout the region. They're becoming better organized, increasing their attacks. We lost four men in the assault. 
VOSK: You should have chosen a safer route, and you should have personally overseen the transfer. 
GHRATH: We were in the midst of a crucial weapons test. He was just an American prisoner. 
VOSK: He was more than that. This communication device he was carrying. It's from the future. 
GHRATH: A temporal agent? 
VOSK: Double the security details at all the entrances to the compound. If they have located us, it won't be long before they strike. 
GHRATH: How could they have possibly found us? 
VOSK: If the prisoner hadn't escaped, we might know the answer to that question. You know what I expect of you. 
GHRATH: The prisoner will be recovered. 
[Ready room]
T'POL: Come in. 
TUCKER: You got a second? I wanted to say, I was way out of line earlier. You have enough to worry about without me flying off the handle. 
T'POL: Your reaction was understandable. 
TUCKER: I was just all set to get home. I wasn't expecting to be in the middle of another situation. 
T'POL: None of us were. I was also looking forward to going home. I thought perhaps I would return to Vulcan. It's been some time since I was there. 
TUCKER: Sounds nice. I was gonna lay on a different beach every week for two months. The only thing to figure out was whether to start in Tahiti or in Cancun. The Captain would always try to put the best light on the worst situation. I wonder what he'd say to this one. 
T'POL: I think he'd be hard-pressed to find any positive aspects. But he would try, nevertheless. (door chime) Come in. 
REED: I've been going over those military dispatches that Hoshi picked up. Some of them don't make sense. They mention recent battles in Virginia and Ohio. There weren't any battles fought there in World War II. The Nazis never got to North America. Something's very wrong down there. 
[Sickbay]
(Porthos is still pining, and even refusing food.) 
PHLOX: It's chicken liver, your favourite. With grated cheddar. No, I can't say I blame you. I don't have much of an appetite myself. Perhaps a Denobulan lullaby will improve your mood? On the other hand, my singing would often drive my children to tears. Maybe what you need is a nice, thick steak. I'll see what Chef has on the menu. Be right back. 
(But as he gets up to go, the Sickbay doors open to reveal - Daniels! but looking very unwell indeed. He collapses into Phlox's arms,) 
[Apartment]
(Archer is lying unconscious on a sofa, having his injuries tended to by a lovely black woman. Then he wakes with a start.) 
ALICIA: Hey, hey, it's okay, it's all right. I'm a friend Just cleaning you up a little. War's a dirty business. But you're lucky. Bullet just missed the bone. 
ARCHER: Where am I? 
ALICIA: You're in my apartment, what's left of it. I'm Alicia Travers. 
ARCHER: Jonathan Archer. 
ALICIA: Pleased to meet you. What's the last thing you remember? 
ARCHER: I was in a truck with a couple of German soldiers. There was an explosion, someone started shooting at us. I got away. 
ALICIA: You sure did. And your SS friends, they're dead, which is how I like them. You're my first bona fide POW. I usually fix up guys in the resistance. (Archer tries to sit up) Easy. Easy, easy, easy, sailor. You don't want to start bleeding again. 
ARCHER: Sailor? 
ALICIA: That patch on your shirt says Enterprise. You must have made it off before it sank. How'd you wind up all the way over here? 
ARCHER: I've been asking myself the same question. (goes to look out of the broken window. The street scene is of German soldiers, piles of smouldering rubbish, and trucks passing by) What year is this? 
ALICIA: It's 1944. 
ARCHER: World War Two. 
ALICIA: I haven't heard it called that before, but that's as good a description as any. Used to be a pretty nice neighbourhood, even for coloureds. As you can see, it's gone downhill. 
(Archer sees the remains of the 'Stop 'n' Go Cleaners.) 
ARCHER: Where are we? 
ALICIA: We in Brooklyn. New York City? 
[Nazi HQ]
(It's a beautiful white house with a porticoed entrance, and part of the left corner damaged. It's not big enough to be the White House. There are tanks parked on the manicured front lawn.; A film is being shown in a darkened room.) 
VOSK: The weapon fires a modulating plasma pulse equivalent to the energy produced by three eighty eight millimetre shells. Each pulse can destroy a tank. 
GENERAL: (human) Very impressive. When can we expect deployment? 
VOSK: I can't give you a specific timetable. There are still some problems to be addressed. 
GENERAL: Such as? 
VOSK: Portability. The weapons require considerable power. In my century, there are energy cells the size of a coin. In this century, it's somewhat more difficult. (hands over a folder) 
GENERAL: What are these? 
VOSK: Requisition forms. I require additional supplies. 
GENERAL: (reading) Eighty six metric tons of aluminum plating, a hundred and seventy tons of carbon steel. We can't keep diverting vital materials from war production! 
VOSK: We are inside the home of a former American President. It seems to me your war effort is going well enough. 
GENERAL: That could change, very quickly. Intelligence suggests the Americans are preparing a counterattack. Our front lines are dangerously thin, supply routes are under constant attack from resistance fighters. A forceful enemy thrust could stand a good chance of breaking through. On top of this, there've been setbacks in Africa, and the Russians are attempting to retake Moscow. Though no one has expressed this to the Fuhrer, there is widespread belief that Germany has advanced too far, too quickly. 
VOSK: All the more reason to accede to my request. The weapons I'm preparing will make you immune from any counterattack, anywhere in the world, and I'm not just referring to plasma rifles. Imagine a plague targeting non-Aryans. No need for extermination camps. Just a few grams of a pathogen introduced into the water supply. 
GENERAL: You make promises. All we ever see are films! 
VOSK: There's far too much at stake for us to argue. We have far too much in common. We both embrace the ideals of purity and perfection, and we both face enemies that would destroy us. Now is not the time to end an association that is vital to our mutual survival. 
GENERAL: No one has proposed ending anything. 
VOSK: Then I'll expect delivery by the end of the week. 
[Sickbay]
(Daniels is on oxygen and an array of drips, while his innards are on the main display.)
PHLOX: Portions of Daniels' body have aged at a dramatic rate. In some areas, the tissue is over a hundred years old. Yet, other sections have been reduced to an almost foetal stage. 
T'POL: Do you have any theories as to what caused this? 
PHLOX: It's not any kind of infectious organism, at least, nothing that shows up on my medical scanner. 
T'POL: Will he survive? 
PHLOX: Frankly, with his amount of cellular chaos, I'm surprised he's still alive. I doubt he'll live more than 24 hours. 
T'POL: He very well could be responsible for our being here. He could also be the only hope of getting back to our own time. It is imperative that I speak with him. 
[Alicia's apartment]
(Outside, men are being rounded up, and those who resist are being shot. Three men enter the apartment building. There's a knock on Alicia's door, and she answers it with a gun in her hand. It's the three men.) 
SAL: (the guy in the blue suit and red shirt) Vic's been arrested. 
ALICIA: When? 
CARMINE: (a big fellow) A few hours ago. 
SAL: The Gestapo's clearing out entire buildings, shooting people on the street. They're looking for you. The Germans are offering ten thousand dollars for information leading to your capture. Why? 
ARCHER: Can't tell you. 
SAL: Look, you son of a bitch, my friend is probably being tortured right now. I want to know why. 
ARCHER: It's classified. 
(Sal points his gun at Archer's head.) 
SAL: I won't tell anyone. 
ALICIA: Sal! 
SAL: Shut up! You got three seconds. One, two, three. 
(Carmine pushes his hand away.)
CARMINE: Come on, Sal. take it easy. Take it easy. Come on, now. Easy, easy. 
ARCHER: All I can tell you is we're on the same side. 
SAL: Damn military. You cut and run, you leave us at the mercy of these Nazi bastards. 
ARCHER: I didn't cut and run. 
SAL: Oh, yeah, yeah, I forgot. It was an orderly retreat. 
(A siren wails along the street.) 
SAL: Vic might break. If he talks, it won't be safe here. 
ALICIA: We've been through this. 
SAL: Alicia. 
ALICIA: This is my home. I'm not leaving. 
SAL: We're going to see if we can find out any more information about Vic. 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: He's conscious, but I don't know for how long. 
DANIELS: Where's Captain Archer? 
PHLOX: Captain Archer is dead. He was on the Xindi weapon when it exploded. Are you responsible for sending us back in time? (Daniels nods feebly) Why? 
DANIELS: The Temporal Cold War has become an all-out conflict. Temporal agents, dozens of them stationed throughout the timeline. They've been given orders to change history. 
T'POL: For what purpose? 
DANIELS: Each faction is trying to wipe the others out. It's a fight for dominance. 
T'POL: Daniels. The events of this period don't correspond with recorded history. Germany has launched a successful invasion of the United States. 
DANIELS: Different incursions are causing paradoxes. Turbulence in the time stream. I almost didn't make it back. 
(He has a spasm of pain.) 
T'POL: How do we return to our century? 
DANIELS: You can't. It doesn't exist. Not the way you know it. Neither does mine. It's all gone. You have to stop him 
T'POL: Stop who? Daniels. Stop who? 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
(The two aliens walk down a corridor and into a laboratory.) 
GHRATH: We're conducting extensive sweeps within a fifteen mile radius of the ambush. We haven't found the prisoner, but we have taken in several members of the resistance. They're being interrogated. There's one that I suspect took part in the ambush. 
VOSK: We're picking up scans from a ship in orbit. It's from the same time period as the device we found on the escaped prisoner. This resistance member you're interrogating. 
GHRATH: Yes? 
VOSK: Bring him to me. 
[Alicia's apartment]
(It's dinner time. Archer has changed out of his uniform into normal clothes for the period.) 
ALICIA: Not bad. 
ARCHER: Where is your husband now? 
ALICIA: He's in the Pacific, on a destroyer. I hear the war isn't going any better over there. Don't be expecting a second course. 
ARCHER: It's not bad. 
ALICIA: You're a rotten liar. All the good stuff goes to the Germans. I still can't believe it. You know, that they're actually here. I'll never forget the day I saw that first German tank rolling up Flatbush. All the people streaming across the Brooklyn Bridge, trying to get out of Manhattan. The President on the radio, vowing to persevere, right before the government evacuated Washington. (music starts up) Right on time. 
BILLIE [OC]: (and behind 
dialogue) My old flame 
ARCHER: Billie Holiday. 
ALICIA: Good to know there's something that your remember. 
BILLIE [
OC]: I can't even think of his name.
(They go out onto the balcony to listen better.) 
But it's funny now and then, 
how my thoughts go flashing back again, 
to my old flame.
ALICIA: Germans outlawed coloured music. Some of the neighbours pass a phonograph from house to house every night, so the Germans can't find it. Just another way of telling 'em off. 
BILLIE [OC]: 
For I haven't met a gent so magnificent.
ARCHER: Alicia, I'm going to ask you something. It's going to sound a little strange. 
ALICIA: What else is new? 
BILLIE [OC]: 
I've met so many men, 
some who sent me up to the skies. 
ARCHER: When I was in a German medical tent, one of the soldiers who came in to see me wasn't like the other ones. He had grey skin, red eyes. He wasn't human. This isn't the first time you've heard something like this. 
ALICIA: Sal mentioned some stories once, but I didn't believe them. 
ARCHER: They may be more than stories. I need to track down this soldier I saw. It's very important. Would you contact Sal? 
[Launch bay]
TUCKER: EPS conduit's fried. Get to Engineering, and pull a fresh one out of the injector assembly. 
WALSH: Yes, Commander. 
(He leaves, then a shadow passes over Trip and he looks up.) 
TUCKER: Walsh? 
(Tucker starts scanning the area.) 
SILIK: Commander. 
TUCKER: Silik. You son of a bitch. 
(Silik indicates the shuttlepod with his weapon.) 
SILIK: Climb in. 
TUCKER: You brought us here. 
SILIK: No. 
TUCKER: Then who did? 
SILIK: What's happening is beyond your comprehension. Get in the shuttlepod. I would rather not have to discharge this weapon. 
(Tucker moves to the pod, then pulls the hatch down and disarms Silik. They fight, but Silik escapes Tucker's grip by turning squidgy and wriggling out. Then he gets his weapon and stuns Tucker.) 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Bay one is depressurising. Someone's launching a shuttlepod. 
T'POL: Hail them. 
REED: I'm picking up one life sign aboard. It's Suliban. 
T'POL: Phase-cannons. 
(As the pod heads for Earth, four shots lance out, and one appears to hit it.) 
[Street - steps to closed subway]
CARMINE: If this Nazi wasn't a human, what was he, then? 
ALICIA: I don't know. 
ARCHER: Just tell Sal I want to talk to him. 
CARMINE: All right. 
(He gives Alicia something wrapped in newspaper.) 
CARMINE: Here, it's hamburger. Germans are cutting the meat ration again. It's gonna be worth its weight in gold. 
ALICIA: Thanks, Carmine. 
CARMINE: Watch yourselves. 
(Carmine leaves them.) 
ALICIA: Used to be we'd get meat on Wednesdays and Fridays. Then it was just Wednesdays. 
(They walk down the street.) 
ALICIA: Nazis blame the resistance, say we're disrupting the food shipment. 
ARCHER: Makes the Germans feel like heroes. 
ALICIA: Yeah. 
ARCHER: Fighting to feed the people. 
(Two German soldiers notice them and walk over.) 
ARCHER: Look. 
ALICIA: No eye contact. 
(She dumps the meat.) 
GERMAN: Why do you walk with her? 
ARCHER: Why not? 
GERMAN: Do you like Negroes? 
ALICIA: We don't want any trouble. 
GERMAN: Shut up, bitch. Do we make you angry? 
ARCHER: You could say that. 
(Archer takes Alicia's arm and hustles her away.) 
GERMAN: When we send her back to Africa, you can go along. You can run through the jungles together. 
ALICIA: Like I said, neighbourhood's gone downhill. 
[Situation room]
T'POL: Before he lost consciousness, Daniels told me there was someone we had to stop. 
TUCKER: At least now we know who he was talking about. 
T'POL: Can you get a fix on the shuttlepod? 
REED: He disabled the transponder. However, we are picking up trace plasma signatures, probably from the damage. I think I can get us within three kilometres of where it went down. 
T'POL: That will have to suffice. 
TUCKER: Thing I can't understand, why'd he go to the trouble of saving my life? He pulled me out of the Launch bay before he depressurised it. 
REED: Another item on our list of things to ponder. 
[Street]
SAL: Curfew starts in an hour. We got to move fast. 
ALICIA: Yeah, sometimes the Germans don't wait for curfew. 
CARMINE: Can't get used to all this skulking around. 
SAL: I know what you mean. We used to own this neighbourhood. 
ALICIA: Yeah, tell him what you guys did before the war. 
SAL: Nothing to tell. We were delegates for the Construction Workers Union. 
ALICIA: Right. The loan-sharkinq was just a part-time job. 
CARMINE: We helped people get out of financial difficulty. Since when is that a crime? 
ALICIA: When they didn't pay you back on time. That's where the crime part came in. 
SAL: Come on, let's go. 
[Alleyway]
SAL: This guy's a welsher and a drunk. I wouldn't put too much stock into what comes out of his mouth. 
ARCHER: I'll keep that in mind. 
SAL: I'm only doing this because Alicia asked. Don't forget that. 
JOE: What's this all about? 
SAL: I want you to tell him what you told me, about your customer. 
JOE: Who are you? 
CARMINE: Just shut up and tell him. 
JOE: I can't talk and shut up at the same time. 
CARMINE: Talk! 
JOE: The man comes to me for information. Sometimes he asks about the resistance, sometimes he asks about the Gestapo. He's keeping tabs on both sides. Me? I don't know squat, so I make stuff up. He pays good. 
ARCHER: What's he look like? 
JOE: He always wears a hat. Stays in the shadows. I caught a glimpse of him once. He ain't like nobody I ever seen, that's for sure. It's the red eyes I can't forget. 
ARCHER: I want to talk to him. 
JOE: Forget it. That ain't part of the deal. 
ALICIA: Sal. 
SAL: What you owe me, take twenty percent off. 
CARMINE: Damn, Sal. 
SAL: What? I'm a generous guy. 
JOE: I don't know... 
SAL: Hey, You think the Germans are tough? Get me in a bad mood. 
[Wood, at night]
(Two figures materialise and go walking. 
They pass a field gun.) 
TUCKER: Artillery. 
TRAVIS: Hard to believe we're only a few kilometres from New York City. 
TUCKER: It's hard to believe this is Earth. 
(His scanner beeps.) 
TUCKER: Plasma signature. That way. 
[Deleted scene - Alleyway, night] 
SAL: (lighting a cigar) Could be the last Cuban in the city. 
ARCHER: No thanks. 
SAL: You don't know what you're missing. 
ARCHER: I got a pretty good idea. 
SAL: I read in a magazine once the Germans were doing medical experiments on people. Well, maybe that's what you saw, one of their experiments. 
ARCHER: I hadn't considered it. 
SAL: A lot of weird stories floating around. The Germans working on new weapons, guns that shoot light instead of bullets. Turn people into dust. It all sounds like one of those stories that guy, Orson Welles, dreamed up. 
ARCHER: Rat. Orson Welles. War of the Worlds. My engineer played it for me once. 
SAL: How'd he do that? 
ARCHER: A friend at a radio station made a recording. 
SAL: You know all those people who panicked? I was one of them. I fell for the whole thing. I called my sister in Jersey, I told her the Martians were coming. She broker her ankle racing for the car. It cost me a fortune in medical bills. Sometimes I wish the Martians had come. 
ARCHER: I'm sure you would have given them a run for their money. 
SAL: We're keeping the Germans busy, more and more of us every day. Irish gangs, dockworkers, coloureds, even broads. Some of these women, they can shoot the fleas off a tick. When the war's over, I got half a mind to put them on the payroll. 
(they see someone in an overcoat and hat coming) 
SAL: Here. (offering a gun) It's loaded. 
(Archer takes it) 
Prazki? 
(the stranger also has a gun, and raises it when he sees Archer) 
GHRATH: You. 
ALICIA: Throw the gun down. 
CARMINE: You're not following directions. That's how people get hurt. 
SAL: You'd better take her advice. 
GHRATH: What do you want? 
CARMINE: Holy mother of 
[Crashed shuttlepod]
(Both doors are open, and no one is home.) 
TUCKER: Tucker to Enterprise. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: T'Pol. 
TUCKER [OC]: We found it. 
[Crashed shuttlepod]
TUCKER: No sign of Silik. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: What's the shuttlepod's condition? 
[Crashed shuttlepod]
TUCKER: I'll need some more time before I'll know if it'll fly. 
[Alleyway]
(Grath is being thoroughly frisked by Archer.) 
SAL: You ever see anything like that before? 
CARMINE: Maybe he's wearing some kind of mask. 
SAL: That's no mask. 
ARCHER: (finding a device) Who are you? Answer me. 
GHRATH: I have nothing to say to you. 
CARMINE: How about if we pulled out your tongue? 
GHRATH: You're not what I expected. Temporal agents are usually more informed. 
SAL: What in the hell is a temporal agent? 
GHRATH: You wouldn't understand. 
SAL: Listen, you freak. 
ARCHER: Why are you changing history? You're helping the Germans win the war. Why? 
GHRATH: Because it suits us. 
SAL: How does this suit you? 
(Sal shoots him in the hand. He bleeds yellow.) 
ARCHER: Sal, no! Damn it! 
SAL: It's better than he deserves. 
CARMINE: Get your hands off him! 
SAL: You want answers, don't you? 
ARCHER: Not like that. 
CARMINE: Just say the word, Sal. I'll take him out right here. 
SAL: The hell with it. 
ARCHER: I don't know how long I can hold them off. You better talk to me. Now, who are you? What are you doing here? 
GHRATH: We're trapped. The Germans are helping us construct a conduit so we can find our way home. 
ARCHER: You said I was a temporal agent. 
GHRATH: We know you're from the future. We detected your ship in orbit. 
ARCHER: My ship. 
GHRATH: It has the same markings that were on your uniform. 
ARCHER: I need to contact them. Can I do it with this? 
(He holds up the device he found.;;A siren wails.) 
SAL: We better get out of here. 
ARCHER: The conduit. Where's it being built? 
GHRATH: You find it. 
ALICIA: Come on. Come on! 
VOSK: You won't stop us. When we get back, you'll never have existed. 
(Sal shoots him dead.) 
[Crashed shuttlepod]
TUCKER: EPS system's completely fused. It could take a week. 
[Bridge]
REED: I'm picking up movement in the area. Looks like several vehicles. 
T'POL: Commander. 
[Crashed shuttlepod]
TUCKER: I heard. Moving to Plan B. What about Silik? 
[Bridge]
TUCKER [OC]: We gotta find him. 
T'POL: We will. One problem at a time. 
[Street]
CARMINE: Jesus, he looked like some kind of demon. 
ALICIA: His blood wasn't even red. 
SAL: Was that my imagination, or did he say something about being from the future? 
CARMINE: He meant him. 
ARCHER: (into Ghrath's device) Archer to Enterprise. 
SAL: You want any more of our help, you're gonna tell us what's going on. What was that back there? 
ARCHER: That was an extraterrestrial. 
SAL: A Martian? 
ARCHER: I don't know what planet he was from. 
SAL: Well, where are you from? 
ARCHER: Upstate New York. 
ALICIA: Fellas. A lot of people out past curfew. 
(A guy rummaging in a rubbish bin, another lounging on a bench, and someone else watching from a window.) 
CARMINE: I don't like the looks of this. 
SAL: We gotta get out of here. 
(Germans come rushing out of a building.) 
SAL: Move. 
(The Germans let rip with a machine gun, and Sal is shot in the back.) 
CARMINE: Sal! (to Archer and Alicia) Get out of here! 
(He returns fire and kills some Germans while others chase Alicia and Archer down an alleyway. They hide behind some barrels while Alicia keeps shooting.) 
ARCHER: Enterprise, come in. Enterprise. 
ALICIA: What are you doing? 
ARCHER: Enterprise! 
ALICIA: (running out of ammunition) Whoever you're calling, they're not going to get here in time. 
[Crashed shuttlepod]
TUCKER: Charges are set. 
(A jeep full of soldiers turns up, with dogs, and gather around the shuttlepod. Trip presses buttons on his scanner and runs for it. BANG! He and Travis run onto the road but a motorbike and sidecar come along, so they stand still.) 
[Bridge]
REED: It's done. 
HOSHI: I've lost them. 
T'POL: The explosion may have disrupted their comm. signal. 
HOSHI: I'm picking up another signal. It's faint. 
T'POL: Let's hear it. 
ARCHER [OC]: Captain Archer to Enterprise. Come in. Enterprise, come in. 
T'POL: Captain? 
[Alleyway]
T'POL [OC]: Your transmission is very weak. Do you read me? 
(Vosk arrives.) 
ARCHER: T'Pol. Two to transport. 
VOSK: Leave your weapons on the ground and stand up slowly. 
(Archer and Alicia come out, hands up.) 
VOSK: We have a great deal to talk about. 
ARCHER: (as they are beamed out) It'll have to wait. 
(Vosk grabs a machine gun and fires as they disappear.) 
[Transporter alcove]
ARCHER: You're all right. You're on my ship. 
ALICIA: How did we get here? 
ARCHER: It's kind of complicated. 
ALICIA: Promise you won't do that again. 
ARCHER: I promise. 
(He takes her hand and leads her away.) 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: Captain! 
(She rushes over and hugs him.) 
REED: Welcome home. 
ARCHER: We're not quite home yet, but it's good to be back. I guess I have some catching up to do. Status? 
(T'Pol looks like she wants to burst into tears and hug him too.) 
[Corridor]
T'POL: Several vehicles converged on the area moments before the shuttlepod exploded. 
ARCHER: Keep searching. This is one of the aliens' communicators. Take it apart. Figure out how to monitor their transmissions. 
[Sickbay]
(Porthos comes rushing over to his master.) 
PHLOX: It's nice to see you again, Captain. 
ARCHER: I hope it's the last time you'll have to look after Porthos. 
PHLOX: It was a pleasure, as always. 
ARCHER: Is he awake? 
PHLOX: He doesn't have much time. 
DANIELS: Jonathan. 
ARCHER: Who are they? 
DANIELS: The most dangerous faction of the Cold War. They're led by Vosk, a fanatic violently opposed to the Temporal Accords. 
ARCHER: Stay with me. Stay with me. 
DANIELS: We almost captured him, but he developed a form of stealth time travel. He escaped into the past. We eventually located him, but it was too late. He returned to my century. He and his people defeated us and launched this war that's destroying all of time. I've sent you to this point because it's here that Vosk can be stopped. If you succeed, the war will never happen. The timeline will be restored. 
ARCHER: One of his people told me they were building a conduit. 
DANIELS: Vosk's time travel device had a drawback. It was a one-way trip. He needed to construct the conduit to get home, but he was forced to use technology from this time period. The machine would have to be enormous. Find it. Destroy it. He must not succeed. Stop him. 
(Daniels dies.) 
[Nazi Weapons Facility]
(Tucker and Travis are hustled into Vosk's laboratory.) 
VOSK: Your colleague has managed to evade us. I assure you, whatever I want to know, you'll tell me gratefully. (to the soldiers) I'll be supervising another test. Notify me when they're ready for questioning. 
(Travis and Tucker are dragged out again, and Vosk goes to supervise his enormous conduit.) 
To Be Continued

