Episode Number: 39
The Enterprise Transcripts - Dawn
Dawn
Original Airdate: 8 Jan, 2003
[Shuttlepod]
Tthe shuttlepod is flying through a very crowded system and Tucker is in the back, doing something to a piece of equipment.) 
TUCKER: Chief Engineers log, supplemental. This turned out to be the perfect spot to test the autopilot upgrades. The gas giant has dozens of moons. It's like a gravitational jigsaw puzzle. Watch out, Travis. These modifications are working so well, pretty soon we won't need pilots anymore. 
ARCHER [OC]: Archer to Shuttlepod one. 
TUCKER: Captain? 
ARCHER [OC]: Looks like you're about to have some company, Trip. Sensors are picking up a small 
(Fizzle, crackle.) 
TUCKER: Say again, Captain. I'm picking up a lot of interference. 
ARCHER [OC] There's a small vessel approaching your position. 
(Tucker dashes to the pilot seat to see a small ship heading for him.) 
TUCKER: This is Commander Charles Tucker. 
(It fires at him and passes close overhead, then returns for another strafing run.) 
TUCKER: Tucker to Enterprise. Mayday. I'm losing power. Mayday! If you can hear me, I'm making an emergency landing, thrusters only. I take it back, Travis. I could use a flesh and blood pilot right about now. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: Enterprise to Shuttlepod One. Commander Tucker, do you read me? 
TRAVIS: Malcolm? 
REED: I detected weapons fire and then both ships just disappeared. 
ARCHER: Last known position? 
REED: Approximately fifty thousand kilometres, bearing zero zero three mark two seven, I think. I can't be more specific. It's the damned interference. 
T'POL: Many of these moons have atmospheres that contain selenium isotopes. That's most likely what's affecting our sensors. 
ARCHER: Trip's a good pilot. If he was near one of those moons he most likely set down on it. How many are there? 
T'POL: Sixty two. 
ARCHER: Then we'd better start looking. Travis. 
TRAVIS: Yes, sir. 
ARCHER: We'll scan every moon, even if we have to do it with binoculars. Keep hailing him. 
[Shuttlepod]
(Tucker opens the hatch and comes out into a night scene with insects chirping. There's rock and a dead tree. He goes back inside to tend to his scratches and record events to date.) 
TUCKER: Chief Engineer's Log, supplemental. For the record, I was attacked by a small craft. I don't know what I did to provoke him. Something in this moon's atmosphere neutralised my engines. I was forced to make an emergency landing. Looks like I took some damage on impact. Main power's still offline. I don't think I'll be flying out of here. First things first. I'll try and get the transceiver working, contact the Enterprise. 
[Moon]
(Working outside next to a campfire, but his fingers are still very cold and they slip,) 
TUCKER: Damn it. 
(He blows on them to try and get some feeling back. There's a noise in the shrubs and he leaves the transceiver to go and investigate, carrying a torch and a large metal bar-like tool. Suddenly there's weapon fire and he falls to the ground. A big alien is shouting something and shooting at him. Tucker dives into the shuttlepod for cover and closes the hatch. He looks out towards the campfire to see -) 
TUCKER: Son of a bitch stole my transceiver. 
[Bridge]
(Another ship has arrived at the gas giant.) 
ARCHER: Who are they? 
T'POL: An Arkonian military vessel. 
ARCHER: You've dealt with them? 
T'POL: No, but I'm aware of their reputation. If we're in their territory, we should proceed with extreme caution. 
HOSHI: They're hailing us.
(A grey skinned alien with aggressive bony ridges radiating out across the face from the bridge of his nose.)
ZSHAAR [on viewscreen]: You are on an unauthorised course. Leave immediately. 
ARCHER: And you are? 
ZSHAAR [on viewscreen]: Captain Khata'n Zshaar. I have orders to destroy any vessel that violates our territory. 
ARCHER: I'm Captain Jonathan Archer of the Starship Enterprise. We weren't aware that this system was claimed by anyone. 
ZSHAAR [on viewscreen]: Why is there a Vulcan on your bridge? 
ARCHER: Sub-Commander T-Pol is my Science Officer. 
ZSHAAR [on viewscreen]: Turn your ship around. 
ARCHER: A member of my crew is missing. We believe he exchanged weapons fire with a small vessel. Was it one of yours? 
ZSHAAR [on viewscreen]: We sent a patrol ship to intercept your shuttle. We have also lost contact. 
ARCHER: Then maybe we can look for them together. Once we've recovered our crewman we'll be more than happy to leave. 
ZSHAAR [on viewscreen]: If your shuttle did encounter my patrol ship, your crewman is already dead. 
ARCHER: Either way, we're not going anywhere until we know what happened. Now it seems to me we have a similar problem. Two missing people and sixty two moons. It'll go a lot faster if we use both our ships to co-ordinate the search. The sooner we get started, the sooner we'll be out of your territory. 
[Shuttlepod]
(Tucker has gone out scouting for the thief. He locates another crashed pod and campfire, but makes a noise as his foot slips on some gravel. The alien hasn't heard him, so Tucker makes his way back to his own pod to try and continue repairs.)
TUCKER: It's him. I recognise his shuttlecraft. He seems about as bad off as I am. Whatever knocked out my engines probably did the same to his. If I'd brought a Universal Translator along, I'd be able to explain to this guy that I'm just trying to get out of here like he is. One piece of good news. It's starting to warm up a little. Dawn is coming. 
[Alien campfire]
(The alien pilot is struggling with the stolen transceiver, and scratching his head.) 
TUCKER [OC]: I'm coming out now. Please don't fire. I want to talk. I'm unarmed. 
(The alien heads off in the direction of the voice, and Tucker sneaks in from the opposite side to get his transceiver and do something to it.) 
TUCKER [OC]: We need to talk. You have something that belongs to me. I want it back. If you understand anything that I'm saying to you, I want you to listen very, very closely. Mary had a little lamb. Its fleece was white as snow. 
(The alien discovers a PADD and speaker in a tree.) 
TUCKER [OC]: And everywhere that Mary went, the lamb was sure to go. 
(The alien dashes back to his camp, tripping an alarm on the way so Tucker has time to hide. He leaves the transceiver behind. The alien comes looking for him, Tucker knocks the gun out of his hand. They wrestle briefly until Tucker manages to snatch it up.) 
TUCKER: Now, maybe we can introduce ourselves. 
ZHO'KAAN: (something) 
TUCKER: Nice to meet you, too. Now, I don't want to hurt you. I just want my transceiver back. 
(The alien says something, then manages to knock Tucker's feet out from under him, grab the gun and shoot him. Later, the alien is trying to work on the transceiver to no avail. He goes over to Tucker and kicks him awake.) 
TUCKER: I'm no good until I've had my coffee.
(The alien hauls him to his feet and gestures towards the equipment, saying something.)
TUCKER: You wouldn't have a Universal Translator on you?
ZHO'KAAN: (shouts) 
TUCKER: I don't understand a word you're saying! 
(Zho'Kaan lets go of him and mutters towards the transceiver.)
TUCKER: I can't make it work. It's broken. You know, broken. I was trying to make repairs when you stole it.
(Zho'Kaan implyes that Tucker should mend it then.) 
TUCKER: What?
ZHO'KAAN: Kushka roatta.
TUCKER: You want me to fix your transceiver. 
(The alien jerks his head.) 
TUCKER: Is that a yes or a no?
ZHO'KAAN: Kushka. 
TUCKER: Kushka to you, too. 
(Zho'Kaan pulls a gun on him,)
TUCKER: You kill me and I can't fix anything. You're going to have to untie me. I need my hands. 
ZHO'KAAN: (softly, threateningly)
TUCKER: I try anything, I'm a dead man. I get the message. 
(The alien unties his wrists.) 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Any progress? 
T'POL: We've searched five of the moons. No sign of Commander Tucker or the Arkonian ship. 
ARCHER: And the Arkonians? 
T'POL: It appears they've made no progress either. They're continuing to search the moons they agreed to. 
ARCHER: This is their territory. They could have called for more ships to help search. 
T'POL: I'm afraid they don't trust us. Primarily because I'm a Vulcan. 
ARCHER: What's the bad blood? 
T'POL: We made First Contact nearly a hundred years ago, not long after the Arkonians developed warp drive. But from the beginning, our relations were difficult. Your people accepted Vulcan guidance, opened diplomatic and cultural exchanges. The Arkonians were suspicious and deceitful. Eventually, the High Command withdrew its contingent. 
ARCHER: Well, maybe we'll have better luck with them. 
T'POL: It doesn't appear promising. 
ARCHER: They agreed to work with us. 
T'POL: For now. I'd advise you to remain cautious. Arkonians are unpredictable. They're prone to hostility. 
T'POL: I'll keep that in mind. Let me know when we reach the next moon. 
[Alien's campfire]
(There's enough light coming over the horizon for Tucker to turn off his torch. The alien is watching as he tries to connect a piece of equipment to an aerial, and gets an electric shock.) 
TUCKER: Damn it. 
ZHO'KAAN: Damn. 
TUCKER: Well, looks like we've made some headway in our First Contact between humans and whatever you are. Unfortunately, your first word is something you wouldn't want to use in polite company. 
(Zho'Kaan says something then gestures towards Tucker.)
ZHO'KAAN: Damn it. 
TUCKER: No. I'm Trip. (slaps his chest) Trip. 
ZHO'KAAN: Trip. (touches his chest) Zho'Kaan. 
TUCKER: Zho'Kaan. Great. Now that we've been properly introduced, how about some water, Zho'Kaan? It's getting kind of hot. Thirsty. You know. Drink. Water. 
(Tucker makes the universal drinking gesture. Zho'Kaan;
throws him a flask.)
ZHO'KAAN: Trip. 
TUCKER: Thanks. 
(Tucker takes a sip then spits it out and throws the flask away.) 
TUCKER: What the hell is that? 
(Zho'Kaan says something as he scrabbles for the spilling liquid and takes a drink himself.) 
TUCKER: Sorry. I have water in my shuttle. Water. Something I can drink. 
(Later, Trip is down to his singlet and struggling with the alien tech. He pulls at a wire and falls, cutting himself.) 
TUCKER: There's a medkit in my shuttlepod. 
(Zho'Kaan sprays saliva onto;the cut.) 
TUCKER: What the hell are you doing? Are you crazy? 
(The cut heals quickly and perfectly.) 
TUCKER: That was quite a trick. 
ZHO'KAAN: Drat. Drat komacha. 
(He gestures Trip to get back to work.) 
TUCKER: All right, all right. I can't fix this thing. It's a lost cause. Maybe if you vomit on it, it'll fix itself. Come over here. I want you to see this. Here. Come here. It's like talking to Porthos. See this? I tried bypassing the induction coil, but it didn't work. See? In here. 
(As Zho'Kaan leans over, Trip pulls out a tube and something sprays into the alien's face, sending him reeling in pain. Tucker gets the weapon.) 
TUCKER: I can't fix this. I need to get back to my ship. My ship. Now, pick 'em up. Pick them up! 
(Zho'Kaan snarls.) 
TUCKER: Same to you. Now, let's get going. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: What have you got? 
T'POL: See for yourself. 
(A diagram of the moons orbiting the gas giant, with colours.) 
ARCHER: I'll need a little help here. 
T'POL: It's a thermo-kinetic analysis of e moons. Each of them undergoes extreme temperature variations during their orbits. 
ARCHER: Go on. 
T'POL: At night, it can drop to five or even ten degrees below zero. 
ARCHER: Doesn't sound so bad. 
T'POL: During the day, the temperature can rise to as high as one hundred and seventy degrees. 
ARCHER: We'd better hope that Trip landed on the night side. 
T'POL: And that we find him before the sun rises. 
[Trip's campfire]
(Tucker is tying Zho'Kaan hand and foot.) 
TUCKER: Don't give me that look. You started this. 
(He takes a long drink of water then rummages in the ration packs.) 
TUCKER: You want some food? Food. 
(Zho'Kaan takes a bite then spits it out.) 
ZHO'KAAN: Nohkto. 
TUCKER: Nohkto. I couldn't agree more. 
ZHO'KAAN: (something) 
TUCKER: You want food from your ship? V'dhoze, that means food? 
ZHO'KAAN: V'dhoze. 
TUCKER: V'dhoze, ship. 
ZHO'KAAN: Ship. 
TUCKER: Yeah. Sorry, but breakfast is going to have to wait. I've figured out a way to get us out of here. I got a pretty good look at your comm. configuration back there. I think I can cannibalise the power supply from your transceiver and use it to get mine working. Maybe get a message off. 
(A little later, the sun is slowly rising higher in the sky.) 
TUCKER: Got it. Almost there. I think this is going to work. 
ZHO'KAAN: Nohkto. 
TUCKER: No, not nohkto. Good. 
ZHO'KAAN: Good. 
TUCKER: That's right. We're getting out of here. Once we get back to Enterprise and we can finally understand each other, the first words out of your mouth had better be thank you. 
(He gets an electrical short from the transceiver, and Zho'Kaan hisses with merriment.) 
TUCKER: You think that's funny? 
(He puts some commands into a PADD attached to the device, and it comes to life.) 
TUCKER: You going to laugh now? Tucker to Enterprise. Enterprise, do you read me? Come on, Hoshi. Tucker to Enterprise. This terrain, it's all volcanic. Igneous rock is heavy in diamagnetic minerals. It's interfering with the transmission. I think I know what we need to do. The transceiver, the tsunsana. It's bad down here. Nohkto. But if we take it to higher ground we could avoid some of the interference. I'm going to need help. You and me, together. 
(Tucker takes the gun and throws it away.) 
TUCKER: See? I'm not going to hurt you, and you are not going to hurt me. We'll work together. 
(Zho'Kaan jerks his head and holds out his bound wrists. Tucker unties his feet.) 
TUCKER: Before we start, we'll get some food from your ship. Your v'dhoze. 
(As soon as his hands are free, Zho'Kaan attacks Tucker. They wrestle, Zho'Kaan goes after the gun but Tucker gets it away from him.) 
TUCKER: Easy. 
(Zho'Kaan sprays that saliva stuff into his face. They trade punches, Zho'Kaan gets a strangle hold on Tucker but gets smashed in the face by a rock for his efforts. Finally they give up, exhausted by heat and effort.) 
TUCKER: Is that the best you can do? 
(Trip retrieves the gun and throws it away again.) 
TUCKER: We can fight some more if you want, or we can try to get the hell out of here. What's it going to be? 
(The pair of them carry the equipment up a rocky, sunlit cliff.) 
TUCKER: Come on. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: Captain, I'm picking up a transmission. 
ARCHER: Trip? 
HOSHI: I can't tell yet. I'm trying to get a lock.
[Deleted scene] 
TUCKER [OC]: Respond. Mayday. Enterprise. Anybody. Please respond. 
[Ready room]
ZSHAAR: We never received a call. 
ARCHER: It was transmitted on a Starfleet frequency. 
ZSHAAR: You told me these moons are dangerous. So why haven't you rescued your pilot? 
ARCHER: That's why I asked you here. The message was in a Starfleet frequency, but we think the carrier wave was generated by your technology. We weren't able to respond. If we can't isolate the wave we won't be able to rescue either of them. My science officer believes she can recalibrate your scanners to isolate our frequencies. Then you can pinpoint their location. 
ZSHAAR: If I allowed a Vulcan access to an Arkonian ship, I'd be executed. 
ARCHER: Then send your science officer over here. T'Pol can show him what to do. It seems my engineer and your pilot have found a way to work together. 
[Cliff face]
(Zho'Kaan looks in a bad way and Trip is stripped to the waist.) 
TUCKER: Chief Engineer's log, supplemental. It's been two hours since we started signaling the Enterprise. No response yet. The sun's not even up yet and it's already hotter than hell. My sparring partner doesn't look too good. I can't be sure, but I don't think his species can sweat. For the record, I have learned one thing about him. His name's Zho'Kaan. Anything you want to say to the folks back home? 
ZHO'KAAN: Nohkto. 
TUCKER: That means bad. You'd be proud of me, Hoshi. I've picked up about a dozen words in his language. A couple of them are real tongue-twisters. 
(He unscrews the top from Zho'Kaan's flask so he can drink.) 
ZHO'KAAN: (something) 
(The sun has risen over the mountains straight in front of them. Zho'Kaan tries to crawl into what little shade there is.;Later -) 
TUCKER: Hey. Zho'Kaan. (he lifts his head slightly) I though I lost you there. 
ZHO'KAAN: Tsunsana. Enterprise krnat? 
TUCKER: No. No Enterprise. 
ZHO'KAAN: Damn it. 
(He has the last of his drink.) 
TUCKER: Don't worry. I'll get Phlox to cook up a new batch for you once we're aboard Enterprise. He's great with that kind of thing. Stay with me, Zho'Kaan. Gan tak. Don't die on me now, understand? All right. 
HOSHI [OC]: Enterprise. 
TUCKER: See? I told you. Hoshi, is that you? 
[Bridge]
TUCKER [OC]: Do you read me? 
ARCHER: We read you, Trip. 
TUCKER [OC]: You're just in time, Captain. It's starting to get a little hot down here. 
ARCHER: We're getting a lock on your position now. 
TUCKER [OC]: Don't send a shuttlepod. 
[Moon]
TUCKER: There's something in this atmosphere that'll affect the engines. 
ARCHER [OC]: it's selenium isotopes, but we don't think it will interfere with the transporter. 
TUCKER: I'm not alone, Captain. 
ARCHER [OC]: We know. The Arkonians helped us find you. How are you and their pilot getting along? 
TUCKER: Uh, just like old friends. I'm a little worried, though. He's gotten very dehydrated. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Stand by, Trip. (to Reed) Prepare the transporter. 
PHLOX: I wouldn't do that, Captain. 
ARCHER: What's the problem? 
PHLOX: I've been analysing the Arkonians' physiology. Their endocrine system is extremely sensitive to temperature fluctuations. If that pilot is suffering from dehydration, it's no doubt causing an acute cellular breakdown. 
ARCHER: Meaning? 
PHLOX: Transporting him will most likely be fatal. 
[Cliff face]
ARCHER [OC]: Archer to Commander Tucker. 
TUCKER: I'm still here, Captain. 
ARCHER [OC]: Trip, we can bring you aboard but we can't transport the Arkonian. Doctor Phlox says it will kill him. We'll try to find a way to get him back to his ship. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: But in the meantime, I'm getting you out of there. 
TUCKER [OC]: No way, Captain. I'm not leaving him here. 
T'POL: The surface temperature is rising quickly, Commander. I estimate it will reach one hundred thirty degrees within the next hour. 
ARCHER: Let's get you home. 
[Cliff face]
ARCHER [OC]: Then we'll worry about your friend. 
TUCKER: I'm sorry, sir, but I can't do that. 
[Bridge]
TUCKER [OC]: Maybe there's another way. 
[Cliff face]
TUCKER: We know our pods can't make it, but I got a good look at the circuitry inside the Arkonian shuttle. One of theirs could be modified. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: How? 
TUCKER [OC]: If they take a look at their intake manifolds 
[Cliff face]
TUCKER: I think they could realign them to filter out the isotopes. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: We'll talk to them, but I won't let you stay down there much longer. 
[Cliff face]
TUCKER: Understood. 
ARCHER [OC]: Archer out. 
(A little later, and sweat is visibly pouring off Tucker. Why isn't it evaporating?) 
TUCKER: Tucker to Enterprise. Enterprise, respond. Some of these relays have fused. Must be the heat. Hey. Gan tak. 
(He pours some water on Zho'Kaan to wake him, then takes a drink.) 
TUCKER: I don't suppose the Captain'll trust me to go out on my own for a while. I wouldn't be surprised if he knocked me down to steward. Your orange juice, sir. Jam or marmalade, sir? But I tell you I wouldn't trade my time on Enterprise. Not for anything. I've seen things I could never imagine back home. I saw the Great Plume of Agosoria and I saw the ringed moons of Matalas Prime. And I stood on an asteroid crater twice as high as Everest, and went diving in the ice caves of Etheenia. Rode in a Suliban cell ship. Spent the night, I spent the night with a princess. Oh, and I even got pregnant once. Now there's a story. I'm sure you have stories, too. That's why we chose this life, right? See things we've never seen before. Hell of a ride, though. Hell of a ride. 
(Then he sees something in the glare.) 
TUCKER: Zho'Kaan. V'dhoze. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Come in. 
(T'Pol and Zshaar enter.) 
ARCHER: I just got a report from my doctor. Your pilot's responding well. He'll be ready to go home in a few hours. 
ZSHAAR: And your crewman? 
ARCHER: He's tired and a bit sunburned, but he's doing fine. 
ZSHAAR: If I discover that my pilot fired on your shuttle without provocation, he'll be disciplined. 
ARCHER: It was a misunderstanding. I hope we can avoid them in the future. 
ZSHAAR: I expect you to leave this system immediately, as agreed. 
(Zshaar leaves.) 
ARCHER: I guess we won't be adding the Arkonians to our list of friends. 
T'POL: The encounter was less volatile than I expected. You managed to establish better relations in a single day than the Vulcans have in a century. 
ARCHER: Let's hope it stays that way. 
[Sickbay]
TUCKER: How's he doing? 
PHLOX: Why don't you ask him yourself? The Universal Translator is online. 
TUCKER: They told me another ten minutes of sunshine, and we'd have been cooked. 
ZHO'KAAN: Tarattaash. 
TUCKER: I thought you said the UT was working. 
ZHO'KAAN: I believe you promised me some Tarattaash. 
(Zho'Kaan makes the universal drinking gesture.) 
TUCKER: You mean the brown stuff you were drinking? Won't take a minute. Anything else while I'm at it? Our chef is making something called chicken Marsala tonight. 
ZHO'KAAN: Tarat 
TUCKER: Tarattaash. Got you. 
ZHO'KAAN: Trip. When I fired at your vessel. I'm grateful I didn't destroy it. 
TUCKER: That makes two of us.

