Episode Number: 76
The Enterprise Transcripts - Zero Hour
Zero Hour
Mission date: Feb 14, 2154
Original Airdate: 26 May, 2004
T'POL [OC]: Previously on Enterprise
T'POL 
[Bridge]
: I've located Ensign Sato. She's on board one of the Reptilian vessels. 
DOLIM 
[Weapon control area]
: The third launch code. 
LIEUTENANT: We have complete access. 
DOLIM 
[Reptilian Bridge]
: The Guardians will not let us fail. 
T'POL 
[Bridge]
: The power readings from the weapon are increasing. 
REED: They're preparing to launch. 
DOLIM 
[Reptilian Bridge]
: Open a vortex. Set a course for Earth. 
REED 
[Armoury]
: The Captain wants to take a team aboard to destroy it. I need three volunteers. 
PHLOX
[Sickbay]
: She's undergone a severe neural trauma. 
ARCHER: She's been inside the weapon. I have to know what she saw. Have her taken aboard Degra's ship right away. 
HUMANOID 
[Situation room]
: The Aquatics joined us only because you promised to neutralise the Spheres. 
T'POL: We have a plan to disable Sphere Forty One. 
TUCKER: If we're right, it should disrupt the entire network. 
BUILDER 
[Reptilian Bridge]
: Reptilians will preside over a stronger, unified Xindi empire, if humankind is eradicated.
[Reptilian mess hall]
DOLIM: If they had made us the dominant species before the wars our homeworld would still exist. 
SOLDIER: And our avian brothers would still fill the skies. 
DOLIM: We should be grateful that the Guardians have finally come to their senses. Once Earth is destroyed, the reptilians will take their rightful place at the head of a new Xindi empire.
(Each eats a live mouse) 
[Degra's ship]
HUMANOID: They're nearly three hours ahead of us, but this vessel is faster. We're closing the gap. 
REED: It may be faster but it's not well-armed. How many ships are escorting the weapon? 
HUMANOID: I can't tell. 
ARCHER: The only way we're going to be able to destroy this thing is from the inside. Any luck? 
JANNAR: All of Degra's schematics are encrypted. 
ARCHER: We're going to need Hoshi to help us. 
REED: She's in no condition to come up here. 
ARCHER: I wish I had a choice, Malcolm. 
REED: Sir, she's barely conscious. 
ARCHER: Can you transfer that to a PADD? Something portable? 
[Transdimensional space]
PRESAGE: The favourable timelines continue to diminish. 
BUILDER: They should be increasing. The weapon has almost reached it's target. 
PRIMARY: But the Earth ship is on course for our primary Sphere. Accelerate the transformation around that Sphere. They mustn't be allowed to intervene. 
[Engineering]
T'POL: Report. 
TUCKER: We've realigned the main power grid. It should increase the deflector pulse threefold, maybe four, but it's going to fry just about every system on board. 
T'POL: Be prepared to initiate the pulse within two hours. 
TUCKER: I don't think you heard what I just said. We try this and the ship's going to come apart at the seams. 
T'POL: Two hours, Mister Tucker. 
TUCKER: The Captain told the Xindi we'd try to knock these things out. He didn't say anything about demolishing Enterprise in the process. 
T'POL: Has it occurred to you what's going to happen if Captain Archer fails? If Earth is destroyed? 
TUCKER: Every day. 
T'POL: Good. Then you've already come to the conclusion that without humanity there's no one to combat these Sphere Builders. Their Expanse will continue to grow, encompassing one system after another, including Vulcan. Your world is no longer the only one in jeopardy. Two hours. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: I think we've got a problem. 
T'POL: What is it? 
TRAVIS: Sphere Forty One. 
T'POL: Are you certain these are the coordinates? 
TRAVIS: Yep. There shouldn't be anything on sensors, not with the cloaking barrier, but there it is and it's getting bigger. 
T'POL: Have you analysed it? 
TRAVIS: Could be spatial anomalies, but they're clustered much tighter than we've ever seen them. 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: They're transforming the space around that Sphere. Not unlike the disturbance where we found that trans-dimensional being. They obviously expected us. 
T'POL: If we're going to disable the network we'll need to get within a kilometre of the surface. 
PHLOX: If the ship were to enter that disturbance, the entire crew would be dead within minutes. I could synthesise a neuraleptic compound that would keep us conscious for approximately twelve minutes. I'm afraid there's nothing I can do to prevent epidermal decay. 
T'POL: Twelve minutes won't be enough. 
PHLOX: Perhaps I can extend it, but not by much. I encourage you and Mister Tucker to encourage alternatives. There must be something you can do to abbreviate your plan. 
[Degra's ship - Hoshi's room]
ARCHER: Any luck? Ensign? 
HOSHI: I'm not feeling very well. Do you think you can get Phlox to come down here? 
ARCHER: We're on Degra's ship, Hoshi. Phlox isn't here. 
HOSHI: I'm not sure what I'm supposed to be doing. 
ARCHER: The schematics for the weapon. Degra encrypted them before he was killed. You've been trying to decipher them. 
HOSHI: I gave them the third code. They wouldn't have been able to arm the weapon if I hadn't given them the third code. 
ARCHER: You were drugged, Hoshi. You had no choice. 
HOSHI: I did. I should have fought harder. 
ARCHER: You need to finish what you're doing. You're almost there. We're going to board the weapon, try to overload the power systems, but we can't do that until we can read these schematics. 
HOSHI: I tried to jump but I wasn't fast enough. 
ARCHER: You need to finish this. 
HOSHI: You've got the three codes so why don't you just kill me? Didn't you say you're going to kill me? 
ARCHER: You've got to pull yourself together just for a little while longer. You need to complete the decryption. Everything hinges on it. Do you understand? 
HOSHI: I understand. 
[Weapon control platform]
DOLIM: When we exit the vortex, how close will we be? 
LIEUTENANT: Approximately two million kilometres from Earth. 
DOLIM: Two million! 
LIEUTENANT: If we had all five codes we could begin the firing sequence immediately, but with three we'll need additional time. We'd be vulnerable if we dropped into normal space any closer to the target. 
DOLIM: Do what ever it takes to fire the weapon as quickly as possible. 
[Engineering]
TRAVIS: You wanted to see me, sir? 
TUCKER: I think I've found a way to boost the deflector pulse without tearing the ship apart, but it's going to mean transferring all impulse power to the array. 
TRAVIS: When? 
TUCKER: As soon as we reach the Sphere. 
TRAVIS: Sir. 
TUCKER: Sorry, Travis. You're going to have to get us to the manifold on thrusters only. 
TRAVIS: That's tying my hands, Commander, especially with the ticking clock. 
TUCKER: You can do it. Look over these schematics, familiarise yourself with the features of the Sphere. 
[Degra's ship]
REED: We won't be able to transport directly onto the control platform, it's too heavily shielded. We'll have to beam in and out no deeper than this peripheral framework. 
HUMANOID: What if you need to board the weapon before your crewman completes her decryptions? 
ARCHER: I'm taking her with me. 
REED: Sir, she's hardly in any shape 
ARCHER: She's been there, Malcolm. That's where she deciphered that third launch code. 
REED: She was drugged. There's no reason to believe that she'll remember anything. 
ARCHER: She's coming with me. I want you and your team to beam in right before we do. Secure the closest route to the platform. 
JANNAR If you succeed in creating the overload, what makes you think you'll be able to get out in time? 
ARCHER: I'll give everyone a chance to get to the outer framework. You'll be in charge of helping Hoshi. 
REED: And you, sir? 
ARCHER: I've no plans of dying on that weapon, Malcolm. I'm going to see what else she's come up with. 
[Balcony]
(Archer has walked out into sunlight and is looking down on a huge circular stage.) 
DANIELS: This is a very important day, Jonathan. 
ARCHER: I don't have time for this. 
DANIELS: It'll only take a minute. You see the fellow in the blue jacket, near the left hand of the dais? That's you, a little more than seven years from now. You and the others are about to make history. Do you remember I told you about a Federation? 
ARCHER: What about it? 
DANIELS: I work with some people who are going to be pretty angry with me for telling you this, but you're going to be an integral part of forming that Federation. You're down there, right now, with Vulcans, Andorians and Tellarites, getting ready to sign the Charter. The membership is going to grow. Dozen, eventually hundreds of species. A United Federation of Planets. 
ARCHER: I have a team preparing to board the weapon. I've got other things to think about right now. 
DANIELS: Let Reed or one of the others go to the control platform. 
ARCHER: What are you talking about? 
DANIELS: It's too great a risk. If you're killed, none of this will happen. At least, not the way it's supposed to happen. 
ARCHER: Then it'll happen some other way. Who's to say whether it'll be better or worse? 
DANIELS: It's essential you be a part of this. 
ARCHER: Where are we? What planet? 
DANIELS: Earth. 
ARCHER: Seems to me it's just as essential that Earth be around for this too. 
DANIELS: Lieutenant Reed can work with Sato. (applause in background) They are not crucial to the future of mankind. You are. 
ARCHER: My mission is to save Earth, not your Federation. 
DANIELS: You can't ignore your place in history. 
ARCHER: My place is on that control platform. Now get me the hell back to Degra's ship. 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: (dictating a letter) And if it's not too much of an inconvenience, I'd appreciate it if you'd contact my first wife's third husband, Groznik. Tell him that he's welcome to keep the Aldebaran drum set I loaned him. Oh, they have a child named Indaura, a sweet little girl, she must be eight or nine by now. Well, I would like to leave her my botanical library. She always had a flair for plants. Computer, pause recording. Everything's ready here. 
T'POL: Commander Tucker has completed his modifications to the deflector. I apologise if I interrupted you. 
(Phlox hands over a cylinder.) 
PHLOX: Oh no, don't be silly. I was simply dictating a letter to my colleague, Doctor Lucas. He offered to make sure my affairs were in order in the event that, er, well, you know. 
T'POL: I have always found it distracting to think of death, especially when entering a dangerous situation. 
PHLOX: Hope for the best, prepare for the worst. I don't know about Vulcans, but Denobulans take great pleasure in bequeathing their belongings to far-flung relatives. 
T'POL: We're not dead yet. 
TRAVIS [OC]: Bridge to T'Pol. 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
TRAVIS [OC]: We're approaching the co-ordinates. 
T'POL: Take us out of warp. Hope for the best, Doctor. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: It's grown. It's a hundred thousand kilometres deeper than when we first detected it. 
PHLOX: (at Reed's station) I've enhanced the neuraleptic compound as much as I can. I strongly advise we remain in the disturbance no longer than fifteen minutes. 
T'POL: Are you ready to release the compound? Then proceed. Stand by to charge the deflector. Set a course, Ensign. 
Captain's starlog, supplemental. We've begun to formulate a plan, thanks to Hoshi, who's made some progress in decrypting the schematics. 
[Degra's ship - Hoshi's room]
HOSHI: What have you guys figured out? 
ARCHER: We've got to disable the reactor at a specific point during the inversion sequence, but we don't know the sequence. If it's not done in the right order, internal safeguards will kick in and it'll be impossible to create an overload. 
HOSHI: I've found the sequence, but decrypting it's another story. Your friend Degra didn't make this easy. 
ARCHER: I wish I could tell you to take your time. 
HOSHI: The first time you came to visit me in Brazil. 
ARCHER: It didn't stop raining for a week. 
HOSHI: I had a bug then, too. A tropical bacterium not a reptilian parasite. I was sick as a dog but I wanted to make a good impression. 
ARCHER: When we get back home I'll see to it you get some R+R in Norway or Canada. Someplace where there's not a tropical bug in sight. 
HOSHI: Or reptiles. 
ARCHER: Or reptiles. Keep at it. I'll get these to the Bridge. 
[Degra's ship - Bridge]
JANNAR: We've gotten close enough to isolate their signatures. 
HUMANOID: The Insectoid ship is no longer with them. 
ARCHER: Why would they leave the vortex? 
JANNAR: We have no idea. All we know is that the weapon is being escorted by a single Reptilian vessel. Dolim's. 
REED: At least we'll only have one ship to contend with. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Here we go. 
(Enterprise enters the brown gloop.)
T'POL: Doctor? 
PHLOX: Fifteen minutes and counting. 
T'POL: Any sign of the Sphere? 
TRAVIS: It's too soon. 
T'POL: Hold your course. 
[Reptilian Bridge]
SOLDIER: Degra's vessel is less than twenty minutes behind us. 
DOLIM: Lieutenant, we're about to drop into normal space. 
[Weapon control platform]
DOLIM [OC]: Stand by to initiate the firing sequence. 
LIEUTENANT: We're ready. 
[Reptilian Bridge]
DOLIM: Are you detecting any Earth vessels near the co-ordinates? 
SOLDIER: No vessels, but there is one small orbital station. Unarmed. 
(They emerge into normal space.) 
DOLIM: Let me see Earth. 
(A little blue-white dot in the middle of the viewscreen.) 
DOLIM: Enlarge. It's a shame. All that water. The Aquatics would feel at home here. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: I've got it. 
T'POL: How far? 
TRAVIS: Twenty thousand kilometres. 
PHLOX: Thirteen minutes left. 
T'POL: As soon as we make visual contact, go to thrusters. Set a heading to latitude fifteen degrees north. Deflector? 
TUCKER: (at T'Pol's station) Standing by. 
(He sees the back of his hand looking dry and cracked.) 
[Degra's ship]
(In normal space) 
JANNAR: They're eight hundred thousand kilometres ahead. 
ARCHER: Get your team ready to go. 
REED: Aye sir. 
HUMANOID: Dolim's changing course. They're heading for a space station. 
ARCHER: Are we in visual range? (image on viewscreen) Yosemite Three. 
JANNAR: A military installation? 
ARCHER: A research post. Usually thirty to forty civilians aboard. Hail them on this frequency. 
HUMANOID: The weapon's emitting disruption waves. I can't get anything through. 
[Bridge]
(Sphere forty one looms into view through the thick 'fog'.) 
TRAVIS: Fifteen degrees north. 
T'POL: Drop to two thousand metres. Track starboard, eighty two mark zero. 
TRAVIS: Aye. 
TUCKER: Doc, there's something weird happening to my skin. 
TRAVIS: Me too. 
PHLOX: It was expected. Try not to scratch it. Eleven minutes remaining. 
[Reptilian Bridge]
DOLIM: The Guardian said that once Earth is gone we're to destroy all human colonies. I see no reason not to begin with this station. Target. Fire when ready. 
(They fire two shots. There's a series of secondary explosions and the little station falls apart in a ball of fire.) 
[Degra's ship]
[Witnessing the callous act of terrorism.) 
JANNAR: They're heading back towards the weapon. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Ten degrees port. Slow to thirty kph. I'm transferring the target point to the deflector array. 
TUCKER: Got it. 
T'POL: Begin. 
(The ship shakes.) 
TUCKER: Fish in a barrel. 
PHLOX: Less than ten minutes to go. 
(three Sphere Builders appear in Engineering. They knock out the crew with energy balls and start sticking their hands into machinery to disrupt systems) 
TUCKER: What the hell's going on? Power just fell ten percent. 
TRAVIS: I'm picking up explosions on E deck. 
T'POL: Bridge to Engineering. Report. 
TUCKER: I'm losing the beam. 
PHLOX: There are nine alien lifesigns aboard. They appear to be transdimensional beings. 
TRAVIS: How's that possible? 
PHLOX: This disturbance we're in, it's obviously been altered enough to sustain them. 
[Reptilian Bridge]
DOLIM: Who's on Degra's ship? 
SOLDIER: Eight primates, three arboreals and seven humans. 
DOLIM: Have their weapons been upgraded? 
SOLDIER: No, sir. 
DOLIM: Pathetic. Prepare to intercept. 
[Degra's ship]
JANNAR: They're arming their torpedoes. 
REED: Sir. 
ARCHER: How's Hoshi doing? 
REED: She's holding up. She and the MACO's are at the transporter device. 
ARCHER: (to the two Xindi) Remember, no heroics. Just get us in and then keep them off your ass. 
JANNAR: There's another vessel approaching at high warp. They're asking for you. 
SHRAN [on viewscreen]: You're not using your head, pinkskin. That ship you're on is no match for the reptilian. 
ARCHER: I'm busy, Shran. What are you doing here? 
SHRAN [on viewscreen]: You should be impressed we managed to track you through the vortex. I anticipated that you'd need some help. 
[Bridge]
(In a corridor, a Builder bowls over a security team with a single energy ball.) 
KELLY [OC]: Corporal Kelly to the Bridge. 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
KELLY [OC]: Our weapons are passing right through them. 
TUCKER: You've got to stop this. If I don't get full power back this is going to take three, four minutes longer than we've got. 
PHLOX: We can't afford three or four minutes. Corporal Kelly, listen to me very closely. Modulate your weapons to a rotating frequency of thirty two point six teracycles. 
T'POL: Doctor. 
PHLOX: Our transdimensional friend, the one we found in the pod, I had quite a few hours to study his physiology. Let's hope my memory serves me well. 
[Shran's Bridge]
SHRAN: I'll be right in front of you, gentlemen. 
[Degra's ship]
SHRAN [OC]: Keep a low profile. 
HUMANOID: We're matching speed. 
[Reptilian ship]
DOLIM: You said there were no human vessels in the vicinity. 
SOLDIER: They're not human. 
DOLIM: Destroy them both. 
[Shran's Bridge]
(Taking hits from the Reptilian weapons.) 
SHRAN: That third torpedo almost got you. Be careful! Prepare to come about to port. 
[Degra's ship]
SHRAN [OC]: Stay below me. 
HUMANOID: We'll need to get within a kilometre of the weapon. 
SHRAN [OC]: Just stay below me. 
[Shran's Bridge]
SHRAN: Let's fight back this time, shall we. Bring the forward cannons online. 
(the two large ships exchange fire) 
[Degra's ship]
SHRAN [OC]: Go! 
[Shran's Bridge]
SHRAN: And tell Archer we're not even any more. He owes me!
(In the Weapon control area,;Dolim's Lieutenant looks up to see Archer and Hoshi on the opposite side of the control panel. Reed and the MACOs shoot him and his assistants before they can draw their weapons.) 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: It's coming back. Tell them to keep doing what they're doing. 
(The aliens escape the weapons fire by walking through bulkheads.) 
WALKER [OC]: Walker to the Bridge. 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
WALKER [OC]: We've secured Engineering but I don't think we've seen the last of them. 
PHLOX: It's time for you to work your magic, Mister Tucker. Within five minutes, everyone on this ship is going to start dying. 
TUCKER: No pressure. 
[Weapon Control platform]
(There is a row of vertical lighted tubes in the floor, glowing green, looking like a balustrade.) 
ARCHER: Okay, bring up the inversion sequence. 
HOSHI: Start with the third one from the left. 
(He takes a big lighted rod and turns it upside down. Now it glows red.) 
ARCHER: Got it. 
HOSHI: The second from the right. 
(As he completes that one, there is weapons fire.) 
ARCHER: Hoshi? 
HOSHI: I'm all right. The first one on the left is next. 
[Reptilian Bridge]
SOLDIER: Commander, sensors show the humans are no longer aboard Degra's vessel. 
DOLIM: These ships are drawing us away from the weapon. Get us back! 
[Bridge]
(The Builders start disrupting any system they can put their hands into.) 
TUCKER: What's going on? 
PHLOX: Ignore it Commander. You've got less than two minutes. 
[Weapon Control platform]
ARCHER: Got it. Two to go. 
(Reptilian soldiers march along the access gantry, firing. The young MACO sniper takes them out with one falling into the centre of the weapon, then gets caught by a Reptilian. There's a brief hand to hand struggle before he is stabbed and falls into the middle of the weapon himself. The Reptilian shoots at Hoshi and she drops her PADD into the void.)
ARCHER: Hoshi? 
(Archer leaves the rods to defend her. 
Reed kicks the Reptilian coming up on Archer into the void as well.) 
REED: (into communicator) Reed to Archer. 
ARCHER [OC]: Go ahead. 
REED: I'm pretty sure that was the last one, sir. 
ARCHER [OC]: Good work. Now get back here. 
[Bridge]
(Everybody has nasty cracks all over their skin.) 
PHLOX: T'Pol. T'Pol! 
T'POL: All right. Take us to full impulse. Get us out of here. 
TUCKER: Wait a minute, I'm almost there. 
PHLOX: You don't have a minute, Commander! 
TUCKER: Give me ten seconds. I'm telling you I've got it. 
(The aliens are still creating havoc.) 
PHLOX: That's it, times up. 
TUCKER: It sure is. 
(He hits a button and the Sphere gently crumples.) 
T'POL: Now, Mister Mayweather. 
(As the Sphere implodes, an energy beam streaks to another Sphere, destroying it as well and causing it to send out another beam. The aliens jerk upright in pain and vanish. Ships systems are restored.) 
T'POL: The network is being destroyed. 
MAYWEATHER: Looks like we're getting out of this soup faster than we thought. 
PHLOX: Without the Spheres, their transformed space must be collapsing in on itself. 
[Weapon Control platform]
ARCHER: Which one, Hoshi? 
HOSHI: Number four. The fourth one from the left. 
REED: Are you sure? 
HOSHI: Yes, yes. Number five is the last one after you disable the reactor. 
(Archer reverses the rod.) 
REED: But if we knock the reactor out, won't that be enough? 
ARCHER: We didn't come here to disable this weapon, we're here to destroy it. Give me the charges. 
REED: I'll take care of it, sir. 
ARCHER: I want the four of you to get to the outer framework. Beam back to Degra's ship. 
REED: As Chief Tactical Officer, sir 
ARCHER: This isn't open for debate, Lieutenant. 
(Reed hands over the charges and detonator, and leaves with Hoshi and the MACO. As Hoshi turns to look at him, he says) 
ARCHER: Don't worry, I'll be right behind you. 
(He sticks the charges on the twirly gizmo and detonates them. It stops twirling and goes dark. He turns the final rod upside down and a klaxon sounds. Then he gets grabbed.) 
DOLIM: What have you done! 
(They fight. The Reptilian is much stronger, and almost throws him to his death, but he grabs a rail in time. Explosions shake the weapon and Dolim looses his footing as Archer clambers back up and starts kicking him in the face. Dolim soon fights back, throwing Archer against a stanchion.) 
[Shran's Bridge]
CREWMAN: One Reptilian transported to the weapon. 
SHRAN: Let's make sure he has nowhere to go back to. They have no shielding on their starboard engines. Target all weapons. 
(Two shots and the Reptilian ship flies apart.) 
[Degra's ship]
REED: Can you get a lock on him? 
HUMANOID: Not yet. 
JANNAR: Your Captain is too deep within the weapon. 
(Flames rise from the middle of the weapon as Dolim dangles Archer over it. Archer manages to put a spare explosive charge on the Reptilian's back and get away from him. Then he smugly detonates it. Splat. Silhouetted by fire he runs along a gantry to the outer framework. The weapon explodes above Earth's atmosphere.) 
T'POL [OC]: Acting Captain's starlog, February 14th, 2152. We're holding position at the coordinates where we were told to meet Degra's vessel. So far there's been no word from them. 
[Command centre]
(T'Pol looks at the main display monitor.) 
T'POL: Long range sensors are detecting no evidence of the Spheres. 
TUCKER: None of them? 
T'POL: None. And all the spatial anomalies within our scanning range have vanished. 
TUCKER: What about the thermobaric cloud barrier? 
T'POL: I can only detect a small section from our location, but it appears to be dissipating. 
TUCKER: Looks like we kept our end of the bargain. 
T'POL: It would appear that the Expanse is returning to normal space. 
TUCKER: We should have heard something by now. What if they failed? Earth could be 
T'POL: Be patient. 
(She puts her hand on his shoulder and he 
sees the back of her hand.)
TUCKER: My skin's healing faster than yours. I guess you Vulcans aren't so tough after all. 
T'POL: Doctor Phlox says we should all be back to normal within two to three days. 
TUCKER: I'm only kidding. You look nice like this. Kind of like an old oil painting. 
T'POL: I'm not old. I will only be sixty six years old on my next birthday. 
TUCKER: I can't believe you told me that. 
T'POL: You accused me of looking old. 
TUCKER: That's not what I mean. I've been trying to get you to tell me your age since we left Spacedock. Why now? 
T'POL: To Vulcans, certain information is considered intimate. 
TUCKER: Intimate? 
TRAVIS [OC]: Bridge to T'Pol. 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
TRAVIS [OC]: A vortex just opened. It's Degra's ship. 
[Bridge]
(Tucker is at Hoshi's station as garbled crackles come over the speakers.) 
T'POL: This is Enterprise. Please repeat. 
TUCKER: Captain, did you stop the weapon? (unintelligible static) Captain? 
T'POL: Set an intercept course. 
[Airlock]
(Degra's ship is docked with Enterprise.) 
REED: It's done. 
T'POL: Done? 
REED: Captain Archer destroyed the weapon. 
(Tucker watches the rest of the team come back on board.) 
TUCKER: Where is he? Is he okay? 
REED: Captain didn't make it, Trip. 
TUCKER: What do you mean, he didn't make it. 
REED: The weapon exploded before he could transport to Degra's ship. 
(Hoshi hugs Tucker, and T'Pol looks ready to cry.)
[Ready room]
(As Enterprise is taken back into the Aquatic ship's shuttlebay.) 
T'POL: Come in. (to crewman) Thank you. 
HUMANOID: The Aquatic vessel should have you home in less than a day. 
T'POL: I was pleased to hear that the Council has agreed to reconvene, 
HUMANOID: It was difficult for the Insectoids to ignore recent events. 
T'POL: And the Reptilians? 
HUMANOID: They'll join us eventually. They have no choice but to accept that the Guardians' promises were empty. Your Captain's sacrifice will not be forgotten. Safe journey. 
T'POL: Thank you. 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: (to his agitated pets) It's all right. All right, it won't be much longer. I promise. 
T'POL: Is something wrong? 
PHLOX: I think they sense that we're travelling in an unusual manner. In the belly of the beast, so to speak. 
T'POL: There are no windows here. How would they know we're inside the Aquatic vessel? 
PHLOX: I don't have the slightest idea. I doubt I'll get much peace and quiet around here until we're flying under our own power. 
T'POL: It will only be a few more hours. 
PHLOX: Is there something I can do for you? 
T'POL: (rolling up her sleeve) My skin hasn't fully healed yet. 
PHLOX: Oh, you're doing fine. Vulcan's are obviously more sensitive to the effects of mysterious realms. 
T'POL: I guess we're not so tough after all. 
PHLOX: Excuse me? 
T'POL: Is there anything I'll need to treat this? 
PHLOX: Only time. How's morale? 
T'POL: It isn't easy for a crew to lose it's Captain. 
PHLOX: I suppose we'll all need time to heal. 
T'POL: Will he be all right? 
(Porthos is lying on his dog cushion looking dejected, with and untouched bowl of food by the side.) 
PHLOX: After a while. He's lost his best friend, but it's just a matter of time. He'll be fine again. 
T'POL: Did you hear that? The Doctor say's you'll be fine. It's just a matter of time. 
(She gently strokes Porthos' head) 
[Bridge]
(The Aquatic ship drops into normal space and tiny Enterprise flies out of its belly.) 
T'POL: Distance? 
TRAVIS: Eight hundred thousand kilometres. 
T'POL: Set a course, Ensign. 
(Hoshi enters.) 
T'POL: You should be in your quarters. 
HOSHI: With all due respect to Phlox, I wouldn't miss this for the world. 
TUCKER: (at T'Pol's station) Mind if we take a look? 
(Everyone stares at the image of a blue-white planet in the middle of the viewscreen.) 
TUCKER: Prettiest sight I ever saw. It's all in one piece. 
REED: The Captain would be proud. 
T'POL: Open a channel to Starfleet Headquarters. 
HOSHI: Strange. 
TUCKER: What? 
HOSHI: They're not responding. 
REED: You'd think they'd be waiting with bated breath. 
T'POL: Try another frequency. 
TRAVIS: I'm not picking up the orbital platforms. 
REED: The Reptilians destroyed Yosemite Station. 
TRAVIS: It's not just Yosemite. There's nothing coming from any of them. 
HOSHI: I've rotated through all the frequencies. 
T'POL: Contact the Lunar One colony. 
HOSHI: I already tried. 
T'POL: (to Tucker) Prepare a shuttlepod. I want you and Ensign Mayweather to get down to San Francisco. Find out what's wrong. 
[Shuttlepod]
(They fly in over the Golden Gate Bridge.) 
TRAVIS: Looks pretty normal to me. 
TUCKER: Then why the hell doesn't anyone want to talk to us? Land at the pad behind the Command Centre. 
TRAVIS: Finally. We've got three vessels approaching. 
TUCKER: It's about time. This is Commander Charles Tucker of the Starship Enterprise. You guys gave us quite a (rat-a-tat on the hull) What the hell? (rat-a-tats continue) 
TRAVIS: Sir. 
(Anti-aircraft flax is steaming up from the ground and three propeller driven USAF aircraft are coming at them.) 
[Field Hospital]
(Conscious but badly wounded people are being tended by nurses and doctors. One nurse whispers to a doctor tapping at a big old typewriter. The background chatter is German, there is a swastika flag on the wall, the dialogue is in subtitles.) 
OFFICER: Where is he? 
DOCTOR: Follow me. He was brought in yesterday. He's been badly burned. (they go to Archer's cot) Do you recognise the uniform? 
(The camera pans round from the doctor to the SS officer, and another, and another - who is a pale and nasty looking alien.) 

