Episode Number: 9
The Enterprise Transcripts - Civilization
Civilization
Mission Date: Jul 31, 2151 
Original Airdate: 14 Nov, 2001
[Situation room]
ARCHER: Morning everyone. 
ALL: Morning, sir. 
ARCHER: What have we got today? 
T'POL: We've detected several phenomenon. A J'ral class supernova remnant approximately three light years off our course. 
ARCHER: That's interesting. What else? 
T'POL: A cluster of three neutron stars. Very unusual. 
TUCKER: How about that, three stone-cold stars. Pretty exciting, huh? 
ARCHER: Anything else? 
TUCKER: There is one other thing that might be worth swinging by to take a look. A Minshara class planet about four and a half light years away. 
(A blue green globe is put up on the monitor.) 
ARCHER: Any life signs? 
TUCKER: Only about five hundred million. If our scans are right, it looks like there's a whole civilisation down there. 
(Archer turns to T'Pol, the only one not grinning.) 
ARCHER: You might have put that on the top of the list. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Put us into orbit at five hundred kilometres. 
REED: I'm not picking up any other ships or satellites. 
TRAVIS: Should we hail them? 
HOSHI: Who? I'm picking up dozens of cities on each continent. 
ARCHER: Let's hold off a second. We don't know whether they're using high-band frequencies or smoke signals. 
T'POL: The latter's more likely. I'm not detecting any EM transmissions. 
TUCKER: Pre-industrial? 
ARCHER: Let's take a closer look. 
(An aerial view of a coastal town.) 
ARCHER: Do you see that, just off the coast. 
HOSHI: I've got it. 
(They zoom in on a three masted ship.) 
TUCKER: Looks like an old clipper ship. 
ARCHER: It's almost like travelling back in time. 
TUCKER: I cannot wait to get down there. 
T'POL: I'd advise against that. It's standard protocol to wait until a society develops warp drive before initiating first contact. 
TUCKER: Those are Vulcan protocols, not human. 
T'POL: Starfleet would be wise to adopt them. There's no way to know how our arrival would affect the evolution of their society. 
TUCKER: So what are you suggesting we do? 
T'POL: Our sensors can gather a great deal of data from orbit. 
ARCHER: Give me a tighter view of the city, Hoshi. 
(She zooms in to show people in a narrow street.) 
ARCHER: Can you get tight enough to see their faces? 
(A couple talking, a woman turns her head.) 
ARCHER: Freeze that. They don't look so different. What do you think, Trip? 
TUCKER: I think you're right, Captain. 
T'POL: You'd be recognised immediately as outsiders. 
ARCHER: Not if we look like them. Starfleet could've sent a probe out here to make maps and take pictures, but they didn't. They sent us so we could explore with our own senses. 
(Later, Hoshi is listening to something and quietly laughing) 
ARCHER: You okay? 
HOSHI: The acoustic relay is picking up dozens of languages. I could spend the next ten years studying this place. 
ARCHER: Well, let's hear some of it. 
(A medley of russian and eastern european sounding words.) 
HOSHI: It'll take a while to work out a translation matrix for all of them. We'll be able to narrow it down for you once we pick a landing site. I did find the one word you might want to remember. Akaali. It's the name of their species. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: A farm? 
T'POL: It's remote and sparsely populated. If you're exposed, there's a reduced risk of cultural contamination. 
ARCHER: This must be why aliens are always landing in cornfields. So, who do we send first? 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: It should stand up to scrutiny as long as you don't look too close. Here, see for yourself. 
(He holds a mirror up for Hoshi to see her Akaali forehead ridges in place.) 
HOSHI: It itches. 
PHLOX: You mustn't touch it, Ensign. The irritation will subside. 
HOSHI: Are you sure I'm the right person for this? 
ARCHER: If the translator goes down, you'll be able to handle yourself better than any of us. 
PHLOX: The anterior crests aren't quite symmetrical. I'll just add a little more definition to the right side. 
ARCHER: We don't need it to be too perfect. 
PHLOX: Of course, Captain. 
T'POL [OC]: T'Pol to Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
T'POL [OC]: Please report to the Bridge. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Is there a problem? 
T'POL: I'm detecting neutrino emissions from a city on the eastern continent. 
ARCHER: What's causing it? 
T'POL: Possibly an antimatter reactor. 
TUCKER: These people don't even have indoor plumbing. 
HOSHI: Maybe some of them are more advanced than others. 
ARCHER: Or maybe we're not the first visitors. What about non-indigenous biosigns? 
T'POL: I'm not reading any, but at this range it's hard to be certain. 
ARCHER: Trip, T'Pol, let's head down to Sickbay. (to Hoshi) Let the quartermaster know we'll need three more sets of clothing.
[Shuttlepod}
(The crew are in Italian renaissance era style clothes) 
TUCKER: My feet would be a lot happier in my own boots. 
ARCHER: What's this? 
HOSHI: Identification papers. Everyone in the city has to carry them. 
TUCKER: T'Pol. 
(He gestures to her to cover her ear tips with the long wig. The pod lands outside the city at night.) 
[City street]
(T'Pol takes scans while Hoshi watches their back. She catches a man watching them.) 
HOSHI: T'Pol. 
(They move on.;Elsewhere, the men are doing the same.) 
ARCHER: Over here. 
TUCKER: I've got it too. The reactor's about eight metres under this building. 
ARCHER: Looks like some kind of curio shop. 
(They try the door, but it's locked.) 
ARCHER: I guess we'll have to wait until morning. 
TUCKER: There could be a lot more people around then. It might be easier to get a look at this thing tonight. 
ARCHER: Except we're on the wrong side of this door. 
TUCKER: Not for long. 
(He produces a lock-pick.) 
ARCHER: Seventy eight light years to get here, our first act is breaking and entering. 
TUCKER: Maybe you don't have to mention this part in your log? 
(Their actions are not going unobserved, then Archer spots a shadow.) 
ARCHER: Trip. 
TUCKER: Going as fast as I can. 
(They're in before the pedestrian can see them.) 
[Shop]
(There are glass jugs, a long case clock, an assortment of stuff.) 
ARCHER: Archer to T'Pol. 
T'POL [OC]: Go ahead, Captain. 
ARCHER: I think we found what we're looking for. 
T'POL: Acknowledged. We'll meet at your coordinates. 
TUCKER: Back here. 
(As they go through curtains to the back of the building, the person who was watching them enters the shop - a woman.) 
TUCKER: The neutrino emissions are off the meter. It's got to be through here. 
(Archer reaches for the door handle, and a force field flares blue. The woman is startled.) 
TUCKER: It's some kind of magnetic barrier. 
ARCHER: Can you disable it? 
TUCKER: I'll try. 
(The woman cocks a hand-crossbow and confronts them.) 
RIANN: Who are you? What did you do to that door? 
TUCKER: Nothing, honest. 
RIANN: I want to know what you're doing here. 
ARCHER: You don't need to point that weapon at us. We're collectors. We're picking up an antique. 
RIANN: A real collector would've waited until the shop was open. You're not here to pick up any antiques. I've been watching the shop for weeks. I know all about your evening deliveries. 
ARCHER: Deliveries? 
RIANN: People are getting sick. Some are even dying because of what's going on in here. Did you know that? Move away from the door. 
(T'Pol has arrived and stuns her from behind.) 
ARCHER: Was that necessary? 
T'POL: She was armed. 
ARCHER: Let's try not to shoot anyone else while we're here, okay? 
T'POL: I'll try. 
ARCHER: The reactor signature's coming from the other side of that door, but it's protected by some kind of energy field. 
T'POL: We should go. It'll be dawn soon. 
TUCKER: What about her? We can't just leave her here. 
ARCHER: Hoshi. 
(He hands over ID papers to her to translate.) 
HOSHI: Her name's Riann, she's an apothecary. 
ARCHER: I'll meet you back at the shuttle. 
[Riann's attic]
RIANN: (waking suddenly) What did you do to me? 
ARCHER: Nothing. You just collapsed. 
RIANN: That's the second lie you've told me. You're not very good at it. Why did you bring me back here. Did Garos tell you to? Are you working for him? 
ARCHER: Garos? 
RIANN: You don't know who I'm talking about. He owns the shop you broke into. 
ARCHER: I'm not working for anyone. I just wanted to make sure you got home all right. 
RIANN: Wait. If you don't work for him, what were you doing in there? 
ARCHER: There's something strange going on in that shop. I don't know what, exactly, but I'm trying to figure it out. I'm an investigator from another city. 
RIANN: Which city? Who sent you? 
ARCHER: I can't tell you anymore than that, not right now. 
RIANN: I suppose telling me nothing is better than another lie. 
ARCHER: My colleague's waiting for me. I've got to go. You said something about a sickness. I wanted to come back tomorrow and talk to you about it. Will you be here? 
(She nods, he goes to leave.) 
RIANN: You didn't tell me your name. 
ARCHER: Jon. 
RIANN: Jon. How far away is this city? 
[Bridge]
REED: Even if we flatten the building with a torpedo barrage, it probably wouldn't make a dent in that energy field. 
ARCHER [OC]: What about the shop itself, can you scan underneath it? 
REED: That's strange. Sensors aren't 
[Shuttlepod]
REED [OC]: Picking up anything under the shop. No basement, no bedrock. It's like the building's sitting on nothing at all. 
TUCKER: There must be some kind of dampening field in place. 
ARCHER: Keep you sensors locked on that shop. If you notice anything else out of the ordinary, let me know right away. 
REED [OC]: Understood. 
ARCHER: That woman, Riann, said something about people getting sick. 
HOSHI: I think we may have seen some of them. Mottled skin, lesions on their faces. 
TUCKER: If we can get one of these people to the ship, Doctor Phlox might be able to tell us what's wrong with them. 
T'POL: I'd advise against that. If I'm not mistake, the fear of alien abduction caused a great deal of apprehension on your planet for centuries. Perhaps we should talk to the shopkeeper first. 
[Shop]
(Daylight. A man is gluing a wing back onto a figurine, a woman is browsing.) 
GAROS: Welcome, gentlemen. If I don't have what you're looking for, I'm certain I can find someone who does. Can I help you? 
ARCHER: We noticed antiques in the window. My friend here is an amateur collector. 
GAROS: Were you looking for something in particular? 
TUCKER: These are interesting. 
GAROS: You won't find a more varied collection in the entire city. This is the pride of my entire collection. (takes a mask off the wall) 
TUCKER: Who's it supposed to be? 
GAROS: Draylan, the mythical ruler of the afterworld. 
(Archer is taking secret scans.) 
GAROS: You're not from this province, are you? 
ARCHER: No, and neither are you. Your DNA doesn't match any other lifeform on this planet. 
(Garos activates his own scanner.) 
GAROS: Nor does yours. I see why you have a fondness for masks. Who are you? 
ARCHER: I'm Captain Jonathan Archer of the Starship Enterprise. We're explorers from the planet Earth. 
GAROS: Earth? I never heard of it. How did you know I was here? 
TUCKER: We picked up the signature from your reactor. 
ARCHER: Now that you know who we are, maybe you could tell us what you're doing here. 
GAROS: I'm an explorer as well. At least, I used to be. I'm from the Malurian system. Two years ago I led a survey mission to study the Akaali. We had no plans to remain here, but after a few months I found myself quite taken with these people, so I decided to stay. 
ARCHER: If you enjoy the simple life so much, why do you have an antimatter reactor in your basement? 
GAROS: There's nothing nefarious about it, I assure you. The reactor powers a fabrication device. It allows me to make food and clothing. 
ARCHER: I don't know if you've heard, but there's an illness spreading through this area. Some people seem to think you're the cause of it. 
GAROS: I see you've met our apothecary. 
ARCHER: You know her? 
GAROS: She's been making baseless accusations against me for months. There's a lethal virus spreading among the Akaali, but it's indigenous. I certainly didn't bring it here. Unfortunately these people don't have the medical technology to cure it, so this woman blames the newcomer, me. 
ARCHER: If you wouldn't mind, we'd like to take a look at this reactor of yours. 
(The shop door opens.) 
GAROS: Perhaps some other time, Captain. Excuse me. Welcome. If I don't have what you're looking for I'm certain I can find someone who does. Gentlemen. (opens door for them to leave) 
[Side street]
ARCHER: His reactor's got an awful lot of power for a fabrication device. 
TUCKER: He could probably feed and clothe half the continent with it. 
ARCHER: Archer to T'Pol. 
T'POL [OC}: Go ahead. 
ARCHER: How soon can you meet us? 
[Riann's attic]
(She's studying a book. There's a knock.) 
RIANN: Yes. 
ARCHER: Hello again. 
RIANN: Hello. Who's your friend? 
ARCHER: Her name's T'Pol. She's helping me investigate Garos's shop. You two have something in common. T'Pol is a scientist as well. 
(T'Pol looks at bench of glass vials.) 
T'POL: Your facility's impressive. Would you mind? 
RIANN: If you're careful not to touch anything. You two are from the same province? 
ARCHER: Not exactly. 
RIANN: Must be difficult to make friends when you keep so much to yourself. 
ARCHER: I'm sorry, I don't mean to be evasive. 
RIANN: Yes, you do. 
(T'Pol scans shelves of bottles.) 
RIANN: Turn down that flame, please. 
ARCHER: I was hoping you could tell us a little bit more about this illness. 
RIANN: Why don't you tell me why you were in Garos's shop. 
ARCHER: We were trying to get into the basement. We think there's some kind of machine there, something he's not supposed to have. 
RIANN: What kind of machine? 
ARCHER: We're not sure, but it may be indirectly connected to this epidemic. If you can tell us what you know, we might be able to help. 
RIANN: I can't tell you much. People are dying and I can't determine why. Drop this in the water, carefully. I learned of the epidemic about eighteen months ago. My brother was one of the first victims. 
ARCHER: I'm sorry. 
RIANN: At first I thought it was some kind of airborne contagion, but it never spread beyond this part of the city. I'm sampled the soil, the water, I can't find anything out of the ordinary. (T'Pol dips litmus paper into a vial) 
ARCHER: Why do you believe this Garos is involved? 
RIANN: The first cases occurred here 
(She goes over to a map on wall.) 
RIANN: A few hundred metres from his shop. That was just one month after he arrived. 
ARCHER: You said something about evening deliveries. 
RIANN: Every few nights, someone carries crates from his shop to different places outside the city. When I've gone back in the morning, crates are gone. Hand me that. 
ARCHER: That's why you were watching his shop. You thought we were there for the crates. 
(Riann pours some liquid from the vial he put the perforated ball into.) 
RIANN: Tea. Would you like some? 
T'POL: Jon, may I speak with you? 
ARCHER: I'd love a cup. 
(He and T'Pol go over to the doorway.) 
ARCHER: Did you get what you need? 
T'POL: I should return to the ship and begin my analysis. 
ARCHER: All right, you and the others head back. 
T'POL: What about you? 
ARCHER: I'll stay here, see if I can earn more about Garos and these shipments. 
T'POL: The longer you remain, the more you risk cultural contamination. 
ARCHER: These people are suffering from something a lot worse than cultural contamination. We've got to find out what it is. 
T'POL: Enjoy your tea.  
[Sickbay]
(T'Pol's scans of Riann's books are on the monitor. She is back to her normal appearance.) 
PHLOX: Quite impressive. Did you say this is a pre-industrial society? 
T'POL: Yes. 
PHLOX: Her methods may be unrefined, but this woman is using forensic techniques far more sophisticated than I would've expected. Isn't it extraordinary? Thousands of sentient species in our little corner of the cosmos, each one discovering science in their own unique way. 
(He takes T'Pol's litmus paper for analysis.) 
PHLOX: Had this woman been born on Vulcan or Earth I'm sure she would have made a fine physician. Here's our culprit. The water sample's contaminated with tetracyanate 622. 
T'POL: I'm not familiar with it. 
PHLOX: It's a synthetic compound primarily used as an industrial lubricant, usually under the strictest safety protocols. It's quite toxic. 
T'POL: Could this be responsible for the epidemic? 
PHLOX: If it's managed to seep into the ground water, absolutely. 
T'POL: I'll notify the Captain. 
[Street across from Garos's shop]
(Riann is making notes in a book.) 
RIANN: Samples from three new subjects indicate no 
ARCHER: Did you say something? 
RIANN: Sorry. I mutter when I'm writing sometimes. It's an old habit. 
ARCHER: I have a similar one. I talk to my dog. 
RIANN: My mother bought me a tousorobco once, but it tuployo pludak. 
ARCHER: What was that? 
(Riann speaks;in Akaali, so Archer kisses her to shut her up while he adjusts the translator. It doesn't work first time, so he kisses her again.) 
ARCHER: Are you all right? 
RIANN: All right? I'm all right. 
ARCHER: Someone was walking this way, but he turned and went around the corner. I thought if we pretended to be 
RIANN: I understand. 
(The shop door opens and a man loads three crates onto a hand cart then wheels it away. They follow.) 
[Forest]
(As Archer and Riann watch, he unloads the crates then talks into a device similar to Garos's scanner and finally leaves.) 
ARCHER: I want you to head back. 
RIANN: Not before I see what's in those crates. Help me open this. 
(A bright light appears from above them and they dash for cover.) 
ARCHER: Move! 
(They watch from behind a shrub as a small ship comes down and tractors the crates up before heading into space again.) 
RIANN: Have you ever seen anything like that? 
ARCHER: Actually, I have. 
(A phaser-type beam hits a tree near them. Archer gets his phase pistol out.) 
ARCHER: Stay here. 
(He circles around to find their attacker.) 
RIANN: Jon! 
(The man is above him in a tree fork. Archer pulls him down and they fight on the ground. Finally Archer knocks him out, then peels off his latex mast to reveal a scaly face. Both scrabble for the phase pistol, Archer gets there first and stuns him.) 
ARCHER: It's all right. He's not dead. 
(He takes the alien's equipment.) 
RIANN: Is there anything else you'd like to tell me, Jon? 
[Garos's shop]
RIANN: If your ship can travel to so many stars then why would you come here? 
ARCHER: To meet you. 
RIANN: Me? 
ARCHER: Not you personally, but your people. 
RIANN: Why? We're so backward compared to you. 
ARCHER: If you take away our technology we're not that different. 
(He uses one of the devices to deactivate the door forcefield.) 
ARCHER: Come on.
(In the basement - through a window they can see a cavern with other people and machinery.) 
[Bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: They're mining some kind of veridium isotope. 
T'POL: Veridium is primarily used to manufacture explosives. 
ARCHER [OC]: I'm not surprised. 
T'POL: Did you find any traces of tetracyanate? 
[Garos's shop]
ARCHER: Their drill bits are saturated with it. We've got to shut this all down. The reactor seems to be powering the entire operation but I can't use my phase-pistol. I'd risk blowing up half the city. 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: Captain, let me come down there and take a crack at it. 
[Garos's shop]
ARCHER: I doubt that we have that much time. Our best shot is the transporter. I'll see what I can do about disengaging that dampening field. Give me a few minutes. 
T'POL [OC]: Understood. 
[Reactor chamber]
ARCHER: I don't suppose you read Malurian. 
RIANN: Can't you use your device? 
ARCHER: It wasn't designed for that. 
RIANN: What are we looking for? 
ARCHER: There's an energy field surrounding the shop. It's keeping my ship from seeing what's in here. One of these controls should turn it off. 
(Riann points to another display.) 
RIANN: Here. This is Tengala Street. Here's the shop. This outline could have something to do with the energy field. Wait, what are you doing? 
ARCHER: If the blue line represents the dampening field, this blue button should control it. 
RIANN: What about the yellow dots? 
ARCHER: What about them? 
RIANN: How do we know they don't represent the field? Maybe it's the yellow button. 
ARCHER: The blue one's lit. 
RIANN: That's what worries me. 
ARCHER: We could debate this all day. Blue or yellow? 
RIANN: Blue. 
(Archer presses it, an alarm sounds and all the doors shot.) 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: There's a ship approaching. 
T'POL: From where? 
TRAVIS: It must have been in a geosynchonous orbit on the other side of the planet. 
REED: I'm picking up multiple weapon platforms. They're armed to the teeth. 
HOSHI: We're being hailed from the surface. 
T'POL: The Captain? 
HOSHI: I don't think so. 
T'POL: On screen. 
GAROS [on viewscreen]: I suggest you leave this system at once or my ship will open fire. 
T'POL: I want to speak with Captain Archer. 
GAROS [on viewscreen]: That won't be possible. He's dead. 
REED: The ship's firing. 
(Whumph!) 
GAROS [on viewscreen]: My vessel is capable of firing ten of those charges simultaneously. Again, I suggest you break orbit. 
[Reactor room]
(Outside the window.) 
GAROS: How did you learn about this facility, Captain? Was it from a somewhat ugly Tellarite merchant perhaps? 
ARCHER: I told you. We detected your reactor from orbit. 
GAROS: I forgot. You're explorers. 
ARCHER: We're trying to help these people. What you're doing here is contaminating their water supply. 
GAROS: There are five hundred million Akaali on this planet. A few thousand won't be missed. I'm willing to let you go, provided you promise not to return. We've instructed your ship to send down a launch vehicle to take you and the woman. 
ARCHER: She belongs here. 
GAROS: Believe me, she'll be better off on your ship. Now step away from the control panel, Captain. 
(Archer gives his phase pistol to Riann.)
ARCHER: If anyone walks through either of these doors, aim this and pull the trigger. 
[Bridge]
REED: They're recharging weapons. 
T'POL: Prepare to leave orbit on my order. 
TUCKER: Belay that! Keep this ship right where it is. 
T'POL: I don't have to reiterate that I outrank you, Mister Tucker. Ensign. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering. 
TUCKER: Billy, stand by to vent the nacelles on my order. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Yes, sir. 
TUCKER: We're not going anywhere. 
T'POL: I didn't say leave orbit, I said prepare to leave orbit. I have no intention of abandoning the Captain, dead or alive.
(Down in the reactor room, the power is cut and both doors open. Riann and Archer leave.) 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: The dampening field's down. 
TUCKER: Anything? 
REED: I've got a fix on it. 
TUCKER: Transfer the coordinates. 
(He leaves. The ship is hit again.) 
REED: The forward hull plating's depolarising. 
T'POL: Evasive manoeuvres. Keep us within transporter range. 
TRAVIS: I'll try. 
T'POL: Return fire. 
(Two torpedoes hit the alien's shields.) 
REED: They've got some kind of energy shielding. Our weapons are ineffective. 
HOSHI: It's the Captain. 
T'POL: Put him through. 
[Street]
ARCHER: How's it going up there? 
[Bridge]
T'POL: A Malurian vessel's opened fire. We're taking damage. 
[Street]
ARCHER: And the reactor? 
T'POL: We're trying to get a lock on it now. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Are you all right? He said you'd been killed. 
[Street]
ARCHER: Don't worry about me, just get the reactor. 
RIANN: Jon. 
(Garos is nearby, looking for them.) 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: We've lost lateral thrusters. 
T'POL: Commander Tucker, status. 
[Transporter alcove]
TUCKER: This'd be a lot easier if you'd stop rocking the boat. 
T'POL [OC]: How long? 
TUCKER: I've almost got a lock. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: I can't shake them. 
HOSHI: Even if we get the reactor, how are we going to keep them from taking it back? 
T'POL: If they want it so badly, maybe we should give it to them. 
(Down in the street, Garos's henchman spots them and opens fire with his weapon. Archer and Riann duck behind a stone trough. Garos is attracted by the commotion. Archer takes out the henchman then goes around the trough to hide from Garos and another gunman.) 
[Transporter alcove]
TUCKER: I've got a lock. 
[Bridge]
REED: (Starboard tube's loaded. 
T'POL: Stand by to go to full impulse. Now, Commander. 
(The reactor is beamed into the alcove then straight out again into the path of the Malurian ship.) 
T'POL: Fire. 
(The torpedo detonates the reactor as the Malurians arrive on top of it. Satisfying green ripples.) 
REED: Their shielding is down. 
T'POL: Come about, Ensign. Target their weapons array. 
[Street]
RIANN: The oil lamp. 
(A form of street lighting.) 
ARCHER: What about it? 
RIANN: There should be at least a litre of residic oil in the container below it. Residic oil ignites at three hundred and ninety eight degrees. You wouldn't happen to have anything that gets that hot? 
(Archer dodges to the shelter of a building and adjusts his phase pistol then fires. The lamp behind Garos and his friend explodes, sending them flying and knocking them out momentarily.) 
ARCHER: Archer.;
T'POL [OC]: The reactor's been destroyed, Captain. We've disarmed the Malurian ship. Should we disable their engines? 
ARCHER: No. They're about to leave, but first they need to pick up three passengers. Archer out. I don't think you're going to have time to pack up your shop. 
(He gives Garos his gun back. Garos actives a transporter and the three swirl out of view.) 
Captain's starlog, July 31st, 2151. We've removed the mining equipment from under the shop. As far as we can tell, none of the Akaali knows what really happened, with one exception. 
{Riann's attic]
(Archer handa over bottle of liquid.) 
ARCHER: Tell them to take the entire dose. 
RIANN: Just one? 
ARCHER: That's all they'll need. 
RIANN: What if Garos comes back? 
ARCHER: I've notified T'Pol's people. They're going to look in on you from time to time. 
RIANN: They could stop by for tea. 
ARCHER: You bet. It's probably best if you keep all this to yourself. 
(She puta the bottle in case with others.) 
RIANN: Who'd believe me anyway? Where is your starship headed now? 
ARCHER: There are lots of inhabited planets to see, but I doubt many will be this memorable. 
(He kisses her.) 
RIANN: Is your translator broken again? 
ARCHER: I'm sorry? I don't understand a word you're saying. 
(And kisses her again, with passion.)

