Episode Number: 97
The Enterprise Transcripts - Terra Prime
Terra Prime
Original Airdate: 13 May, 2005
T'POL: Previously, on Enterprise.
SAMUELS 
[Starfleet Command]]
: Today we have assembled representatives of numerous worlds to forge an unprecedented alliance. 
PAXTON 
[Orpheus Medical Facility]
: It's almost possible to forget what she represents. 
PHLOX 
[Sickbay]
: According to every analysis, this child is the offspring of Commander Tucker and Commander T'Pol. 
HARRIS 
[San Francisco]
: We think Terra Prime is involved, and it has something to do with the child. Find it, you'll have the answers. 
T'POL 
[T'Pol's quarters]
: I've never been pregnant, Trip. 
TUCKER: Then how do you explain all this? 
REED 
[Travis' quarters]
: (detaining Gannet) She's not here to do a story on Enterprise, Travis. She's a spy. 
PAXTON 
[Orpheus Bridge]
: I'm returning Earth to its rightful owners. 
(The mining facility lands on Mars.) 
PAXTON [on viewscreen]: I've just taken over the verteron array on Mars. I can now fire on any ship or facility in the system. 
(He blasts a new crater on the Moon.) 
[Bridge]
PAXTON: I have no intention of using this weapon again, provided that every single non-human in our system leaves immediately. I know there will be questions. We've been dealing with non-humans for almost a century. 
ARCHER: Block that transmission. 
HOSHI: He's on every frequency. The signal's going system-wide. 
ARCHER: Target his ship. Take out their communications. 
REED: He's tied his warp reactor into the array. If we hit him, it'll take out half of Utopia colony 
ARCHER: Open a channel to Starfleet. 
PAXTON [on viewscreen]: Judge the evidence for yourselves. 
HOSHI: Everything's jammed. 
PAXTON [on viewscreen]: The citizen soldiers of Terra Prime will act to protect you against the most dangerous enemy that humanity has ever faced. 
(The baby is shown on the viewscreen.) 
[Starfleet Command]
PAXTON [OC]: Do not be deceived. This is no ordinary, innocent child. This is an alien-human hybrid. Living proof of what will happen if we allow ourselves to be submerged in an interstellar coalition. Our genetic heritage 
SAMUELS: I want that transmission blocked. 
MAN [OC]: We're trying. We can't break through the signal. 
SAMUELS: Then find some way to contact Enterprise. I want to speak to Archer. 
[Bridge]
PAXTON [on viewscreen]: Terra Prime is dedicated to the protection of life in all of its diversity. So for the next twenty four hours, we guarantee safe passage to all aliens leaving our solar system. So long as non-humans keep to their own worlds, 
ARCHER: Scan Paxton's ship for Vulcan biosigns. Get a transporter lock on the baby and T'Pol. 
PAXTON [on viewscreen]: But if any alien, if one single alien remains after the deadline, Terra Prime will defend the sovereignty of every single human being 
(The image zooms in on a building.) 
PAXTON [OC]: And we will begin by destroying the institution whose blind arrogance and moral cowardice have put us all at risk. Starfleet Command. We do not seek war, but if the aliens do not leave, and force us to fight, I make this solemn promise to all of the sons and daughters of Earth. Our future will be secure because humanity will prevail. 
REED: He's targeted us with the array. Apparently, they don't like being scanned. 
ARCHER: Get us out of here. 
(The verteron beam strikes out at Enterprise.) 
ARCHER: Damage? 
REED: Massive power surge! We've lost half our relays. The beam was only two percent of the array's total output. He could have vaporised us. 
ARCHER: We'll consider ourselves warned. Set a course to Earth. 
[Starfleet Command]
SAMUELS: (to a woman, as Soval gestures to him) If you'll excuse me. 
WOMAN: Of course. 
SAMUELS: Ambassador? 
SOVAL: Spontaneous demonstrations have already begun around the Vulcan compound. 
SAMUELS: Isolated incidents, I'm sure. 
ANDORIAN: There are protesters chanting outside the Andorian embassy. And they're using words that aren't in the universal translator. 
SOVAL: It's obvious Paxton's ultimatum is part of a co-ordinated plan. 
ANDORIAN: Why are we all still here? We could be obliterated at any second! 
SAMUELS: Paxton's a fanatic, but he's a man of his word. He won't act before his deadline's up. 
SOVAL: The deadline aside, the fact that Paxton has the support of so many of your people is almost as troubling. 
ANDORIAN: I agree. Earthmen talk about uniting worlds, but your own planet is deeply divided. Perhaps you're not quite ready to host this conference. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Paxton's holding two of my officers hostage at the array. We can't attack it. 
SAMUELS: The Council's aware of that. If you can't bring yourself to fire on them, another Captain can be assigned to Enterprise. No one will think less of you. 
ARCHER: It's not just the hostages. Any attack on the array will trigger a massive explosion that could kill thousands of colonists. 
SAMUELS: This wasn't an easy decision for the Council. The potential for disaster's even greater than you think. Over the next thirty months, the terraforming project has fourteen comets set to collide with Mars. Without the array to divert them toward the polar caps, the comets could hit anywhere, even the domed cities. 
ARCHER: I'll take in a small team. We'll break into the facility and stop them. 
SAMUELS: Paxton can destroy any ship that approaches Mars. 
ARCHER: If he can't see us, he can't destroy us. 
[Orpheus Medical Facility]
PAXTON: It's unharmed, just as I said. 
T'POL: Her medical readings appear normal. 
PAXTON: There's nothing normal about it. 
TUCKER: She's not an it. 
T'POL: How did you obtain our genetic material? The child is a binary clone. 
TUCKER: They'd need cells from both of us. 
PAXTON: The medical freezers on your ship hold bio-samples from your entire crew. Terra Prime has supporters everywhere. 
TUCKER: Someone on Enterprise helped you? Who? 
PAXTON: I've let you see your daughter. That's my half of the bargain. Now it's your turn. 
(Tucker and Paxton step out of the room, so we can see the module label 03-47 by the door.) 
PAXTON: I need to make modifications on my ship. 
TUCKER: I'm listening. 
PAXTON: I need you to refine my targeting system. 
TUCKER: You really think I'm going to help you turn that array into a weapon? 
PAXTON: You really think I'm going to give you a choice? 
(Josiah puts a gun to T'Pol's head.) 
[San Francisco - night]
HARRIS: Two meetings in the span of a week. People might start to talk. 
REED: I don't like it any more than you do. 
HARRIS: So, you want to go to Mars and you need my help. 
REED: You know the situation. 
HARRIS: I believe I'm aware of the broad strokes. I also understand Paxton's tapped into the planetary sensor grid. No one can get within a thousand kilometres of the verteron array without being detected. 
REED: And you're going to tell me how. 
HARRIS: What makes you think I even have that information? 
Because your section routinely thinks about the unthinkable. And because you'd never miss a chance to put me in your debt. 
HARRIS: You're a good judge of character. The grid was designed to function in the planet's original atmosphere, but terraforming's made the air much thicker. 
REED: How does that help us? 
(Harris hands over a computer file which Reed puts into a PADD.) 
HARRIS: Sections of the grid continually need re-calibration and are prone to false signals. You can exploit that weakness. The good news is, with terraforming there's no more need for pressure suits in the lowland. Oxygen, yes. Thermal garments 
REED: According to this, if we keep our altitude less than ten metres above the surface, Paxton won't see us. 
HARRIS: You'll still need to reach the surface undetected. 
REED: That part's taken care of, without your help. 
HARRIS: So, the student has surpassed the teacher. When you're finished with Mars, why don't you come work for me? 
REED: I've got quite enough to keep me busy on Enterprise. 
HARRIS: And if Archer's coalition is formed, Enterprise could be busier than ever. 
REED: Indeed? Well, then I imagine this'll be the last time we meet. 
HARRIS: Always the optimist. Good luck, Malcolm. 
(Harris offers his hand, and after a slight pause, Reed shakes it.) 
[Conference room]
ARCHER: Comet Burke, deflected by the array eight years ago. Set to hit the north pole of Mars at dawn. 
SAMUELS: You're not serious. 
TRAVIS: I have experience with comets, sir. 
REED: Compared to penetrating Xindi defenses, this'll be a walk in the park. 
SAMUELS: But that's only fourteen hours from now. What happens if this plan of yours doesn't work? 
ARCHER: Enterprise will destroy the array as ordered. 
[Orpheus - T'Pol's room]
(T'Pol has the baby in her arms when Paxton comes in.) 
PAXTON: All the rocking in the world will not make that child Vulcan or human. 
T'POL: Human and Vulcan genes produced this child, which indicates our two species have more similarities than differences. 
PAXTON: Don't you realise that baby is, (his hand shakes) That baby is as much a threat to your species as it is to mine? 
T'POL: She's not a threat. 
PAXTON: That child is a cross-breed freak. How many generations before our genome is so diluted that the word human is nothing more than a footnote in some medical text? The same thing could happen to your people, or don't you care about that? 
T'POL: Neither of our species is what it was a million years ago, nor what it'll become in the future. Life is change. 
PAXTON: Change in this case means extinction, and I, for one, will not let that baby bring humanity to that point. 
T'POL: I won't let you hurt her. 
PAXTON: I won't have to. 
(As he turns to leave, T'Pol quickly scans him.) 
T'POL: What does that mean? 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: We're within range. 
ARCHER: Bridge to Engineering. 
[Engineering]
KELBY: Kelby here. 
ARCHER [OC]: We're coming up on the comet. 
KELBY: I'm on it, sir. This is it, people. Cycle the ports. Ensign, rig the intakes for cometary debris. 
ENSIGN: Yes, sir. 
KELBY: Engineering is good to go, sir. 
[Bridge]
KELBY [OC]: You've got full impulse and warp standing by. 
ARCHER: All right, Travis, let's hitch a ride to Mars. 
TRAVIS: Aye, aye, sir. 
[Brig]
(Travis is in thermal clothing to pay a jail visit.) 
GANNET: Thank you for seeing me. 
TRAVIS: What's so urgent? 
GANNET: I never got my lawyer. 
TRAVIS: You'll have to talk to the Captain. 
GANNET: Apparently, he's busy. 
TRAVIS: We all are. That's it? 
GANNET: I don't work for Terra Prime. I work for Starfleet Intelligence. 
TRAVIS: That's not possible. 
(He opens the cell door and goes in.) 
GANNET: You are not the only one who wants to serve his people. 
TRAVIS: If you were an S.I. agent, you'd be out of this Brig with one call to your division head. 
GANNET: And then everyone on Enterprise would know who I am, including the real Terra Prime operative. 
(Travis' communicator chirps.) 
TRAVIS: Mayweather, Go ahead. 
REED: We're ready for you in the launch bay. 
TRAVIS: On my way. You know I'm going to tell the Captain about this. 
GANNET: He won't believe you. 
TRAVIS: Probably not. Why are you telling me this now? 
GANNET: You're going after Paxton. If someone on Enterprise is working for him, he could know you're coming. 
TRAVIS: So you're revealing all of this because you're worried about me. 
GANNET: Yes. 
TRAVIS: I'm touched. 
(He leaves the cell and locks the door.) 
GANNET: Travis, wait! 
TRAVIS: You're not going to manipulate me again. Goodbye. 
[Launch bay]
ARCHER: Keep the sensors locked on the array. The moment it powers up 
HOSHI: I won't hesitate, sir. 
ARCHER: I remember when you used to jump every time the engines hiccupped. 
HOSHI: I still do. I'm just better at hiding it. 
REED: Captain. 
ARCHER: Don't get too used to that chair. I'm going to want it back. 
HOSHI: Understood. 
[Orpheus Mining Facility]
(Tucker is working on the targeting scanners as ordered.) 
TUCKER: You know, I never used to like Vulcans all that much myself. They always seemed so smug. Making us jump through hoops for every little advance in warp technology, and they knew the answers all along. So what was it with you? The ears? The fact that they're vegetarian? 
JOSIAH: They're not human. 
TUCKER: Well, you can't deny that. 
JOSIAH: And they sat by while millions of our people died. World War Three. 
TUCKER: We didn't make contact with the Vulcans until ten years after the war. 
JOSIAH: But they were up there with their superior technology. They could've stopped it, but they didn't. I think it suited their plans. A devastated Earth was much easier for them to control. 
TUCKER: Is that the kind of paranoid crap Paxton's been feeding you? 
JOSIAH: Get back to work. 
TUCKER: You ever actually met a Vulcan? 
JOSIAH: Your friend. She's the first. 
TUCKER: If you got to know some, actually took the time to talk with one 
JOSIAH: You obviously did more than talk. And look at what you got for your trouble. Some half-human thing. 
(Tucker stands up, obviously angry.) 
JOSIAH: Go ahead. 
TUCKER: Okay. 
(He lands a great right uppercut on Josiah's jaw, then takes advantage of the man's turned back to do something in a panel before he gets kicked down.) 
JOSIAH: You're a traitor. A traitor to humanity. 
[Shuttlepod]
(The pod is launched into the tail of the comet, where it gets buffeted by the ice.) 
TRAVIS: Hull plating's steady at ninety four percent. 
REED: What's wrong with the inertial dampeners? 
TRAVIS: We need to maintain an erratic flight profile, so we look like a chunk of the comet. 
ARCHER: Thirty minutes to the atmosphere. 
TRAVIS: I'm taking us closer to the nucleus. It's going to start getting a little rough. 
REED: Start? 
PHLOX: Would you like me to give you something? 
REED: I've already had the maximum dosage. 
PHLOX: Here's a bag. 
[Orpheus Mining Facility]
PAXTON: There's nothing aliens like better than to see us fighting one another. 
TUCKER: Where're T'Pol and the baby? 
PAXTON: They're together. You'll eat as soon as you finish your work. 
TUCKER: I am finished. 
PAXTON: All you've done is try to sabotage the targeting system. 
TUCKER: I don't know what you're talking about. 
PAXTON: Please. I've been monitoring your work from the control centre. To be honest, I'd have been disappointed if you hadn't tried to sabotage the array. But you did, which proves you're a man of principle. That is why I know you're going to refine the array just as you promised. 
TUCKER: I told you I'd make modifications to your ship-- not your weapon. 
PAXTON: In two hours I am going to fire a verteron beam directly at Starfleet Command. Now, with this targeting system the way it is, I will hit Starfleet but I'll also take out half of San Francisco along with it. I need a scalpel, not a bludgeon. 
TUCKER: I don't care what you need. 
PAXTON: Starfleet's been warned, if that's what concerns you. Now you can either help me, and a few empty buildings will be destroyed, or you refuse me, and millions may die. 
TUCKER: You told Starfleet when you're planning to fire the array. And you don't think they're going to blast this facility off the face of the planet? 
PAXTON: If you are so eager for a bloodbath, a bloodbath is what you will get. Put him in detention. And make sure he has a news screen. I want him to see the bodies when they start to pull them from the rubble. 
[T'Pol's room]
(She's trying to bond with the baby.) 
T'POL: Hello. I'm your mother. You're going to need a name. We should discuss that with your father. 
(She scans the child again.) 
[Shuttlepod]
TRAVIS: The gravity's starting to tear the comet apart. 
(Reed has made use of the bag Phlox gave him.) 
ARCHER: We're picking up ionisation from the upper atmosphere. 
(The comet hurtles towards the Martian icecap. There's a sudden jolt in the pod.) 
REED: What was that? 
TRAVIS: The engine shut down, but there were no warning lights. The console's locked up. 
ARCHER: Hull plating's offline. Hull temperature climbing! We're coming in too hot. 
(The pod is tumbling in the wake of the disintegrating comet.) 
TRAVIS: Bypassing auto flight control. Switching to manual! 
REED: At this speed? 
TRAVIS: We're out of options. 
(Their flight levels off, and the heat shield blackens.) 
TRAVIS: Ground proximity? 
ARCHER: Five seconds to impact. 
(The comet hits, and the shuttlepod sails through.);
REED: Well, that was fun. Can we do it again? 
[Orpheus Detention cell]
(Tucker examines his surroundings, and starts putting together an impromptu tool kit to deal with the door lock.) 
TUCKER: A Mark Three interlock. 
[Shuttlepod]
(The pod swoops low over the Carl Sagan Memorial Station and the remains of Pathfinder.) 
REED: The closer we get, the more we risk being spotted by Paxton's sensors. 
ARCHER: Get close to that ridge line. 
TRAVIS: I was thinking the same thing. You'll want to keep your arms inside the vehicle at all times. 
(He takes them in to land.) 
[Mars]
REED: Thirty-two. 
TRAVIS: Hmm? 
REED: This is the thirty second planet I've set foot on. 
PHLOX: Two hundred and forty eight. 
ARCHER: The verteron array is on the other side of that rise. We'll head through there. 
[Orpheus Central Control]
(T'Pol is hauled in by Josiah.) 
PAXTON: I'm told you have something to say to me. 
T'POL: In private. 
PAXTON: I keep no secrets from my men. 
T'POL: You and I both know that's not true. 
PAXTON: Josiah, give us the room. 
JOSIAH: I'll be outside. 
(He leaves.) 
T'POL: My daughter's ill. You will arrange for medical care at once. 
PAXTON: No one leaves this facility. 
T'POL: You will provide immediate transport for my child, Commander Tucker, and myself. The hospital at Utopia Colony will be suitable until Enterprise arrives. 
PAXTON: What, have you been inhaling the atmosphere? What makes you think you can dictate terms to me? 
T'POL: This. 
(She grasps his twitching hand.) 
T'POL: Taggart's Syndrome. Since you obviously didn't die by age twenty, you're receiving treatment. Rigelian gene therapy? 
PAXTON: You're not a doctor. 
T'POL: The very thing you're warning humans to avoid is what's keeping you alive. Alien knowledge, freely shared. You're not only a terrorist, you're a hypocrite. 
PAXTON: This is not the time for timidity and second guessing. We cannot afford to doubt ourselves. 
T'POL: Colonel Green also said, to be human is to be pure. Under his rule, you would have been euthanised for having a genetic disorder. 
PAXTON: I'm not the first significant leader who failed to measure up to his own ideal. 
T'POL: You're not significant! 
PAXTON: History will determine that! So go ahead, tell my followers what you wish. See if they take the word of an alien over mine. What's wrong with your child? 
T'POL: Elevated white-blood cell count, low-grade fever. 
PAXTON: Well, its two halves are warring with one another. Alien and human. Conflict was inevitable.
;He (opens the door.) 
PAXTON: Josiah. 
(Josiah comes in to take T'Pol away.) 
PAXTON: Your child and the Coalition of Planets, both doomed from the beginning. 
[Mars]
REED: Ten metres. 
(The array is visible between rocks.) 
[Bridge]
SAMUELS: Paxton's deadline is up. We have to face an unpleasant reality. Captain Archer's mission's failed. 
HOSHI: Paxton will need two minutes to power up the array before he can fire. 
SAMUELS: Two minutes? 
HOSHI: It's enough. 
SAMUELS: I'm not prepared to take that chance. Your estimates could be wrong. 
HOSHI: I won't destroy the array unless we have no other choice. 
SAMUELS: I understand your reluctance. 
HOSHI: I'm following orders. 
SAMUELS: I'm giving you new orders. Do it now. 
HOSHI: I'm sorry, sir. 
SAMUELS: I can have you relieved of duty. 
HOSHI: Actually, I can only be relieved by a higher ranking officer in my chain of command. 
SAMUELS: Open a channel to Admiral Gardner. 
HOSHI: Belay that order. I won't risk exposing our position by breaking radio silence. 
SAMUELS: You're risking the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. 
HOSHI: I know what I'm doing. 
[Orpheus Mining Facility]
(The lock is blown and the away team enter.) 
ARCHER: The guard's still walking away. 
REED: There's another guard approaching. 
(Reed and Archer prepare to ambush - Tucker) 
TUCKER: Took you long enough. 
ARCHER: Where's T'Pol? 
TUCKER: Crew quarters, but Paxton's getting ready to fire the array. 
REED: If he powers it up 
ARCHER: Enterprise has orders to destroy the complex. 
[Orpheus Central Control]
GREAVES: I've spoken to our operatives. There's no indication that the Vulcans have withdrawn from their consulates in Canberra or Berlin. 
PAXTON: I never expected them to comply. Let's get this done. 
[Bridge]
TACTICAL: I'm picking up a power surge in the array. 
SAMUELS: You're out of time. Destroy the complex now. 
HOSHI: Take us in. Full impulse. Charge weapons. 
[Orpheus Central Control]
PAXTON: Josiah, begin the firing sequence. 
[Bridge]
TACTICAL: Target locked 
SAMUELS: Give the order! 
[Orpheus Central Control]
JOSIAH: Co-ordinates locked in. 
COMPUTER: Two minutes to pulse activation. 
(The away team burst in, in a flurry of phase pistol fire.) 
ARCHER: Step away from the controls. 
PAXTON: Jonathan Archer, the man who delivered us from the Xindi. Well, look at you now. 
ARCHER: Archer to Enterprise. 
HOSHI [OC]: Go ahead, Captain. 
ARCHER: We're inside the control room. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: Standing by. 
[Orpheus Central Control]
ARCHER: Shut it down. 
TUCKER: Main controls are in there. 
(Josiah shoots Tucker, they shoot Josiah. Alarms sound. The gunfight begins in earnest.) 
COMPUTER: Ninety seconds to pulse activation. 
(One of Archer's shots goes through a window near Paxton.) 
ARCHER: The room's depressurising. Get Malcolm out of here! Go! 
(Travis and Phlox drag the stricken Reed out of the room, and Archer gets to his stricken engineer.) 
TUCKER: Plasma grid, control panel. 
PAXTON: I know the reason you turned your back on humanity. I blame your father. He wanted the secrets of warp technology so badly, he allowed the Vulcans to turn him into their pet human. And you, well, the sins of the father. 
(The window continues to splinter.) 
COMPUTER: Plasma grid offline. Firing sequence aborted. 
(Archer puts his oxygen mask on Tucker.) 
PAXTON: My father never asked anything from anyone. His mining operations transformed the moon from a mere colony into a completely self-sufficient world, and that is how we should go to the stars. Taking the worlds we need and taming them, with human hands, and human minds, and human souls. 
ARCHER: That might've worked for the moon, but the galaxy's a lot more crowded than we thought. 
PAXTON: That's not our problem. 
ARCHER: It's an opportunity. It's over, Paxton. 
PAXTON: We're each his father's child. 
(The window finally gives up and Archer falls.) 
PAXTON: I've been a miner all my life. You get used to the low oxygen. 
(He gets to the control panel.) 
COMPUTER: Firing sequence resumed. Pulse activation in thirty seconds. 
(Archer tries another very tired fist fight, then resorts to the old gun to the head ploy to get Paxton to cancel the firing sequence.) 
COMPUTER: Pulse activation in fifteen seconds. Ten, nine, eight 
PAXTON: I've locked the sequence. You can't stop it from firing. I've locked it! 
COMPUTER: four, three, two, one. Pulse activated. 
PAXTON: Terra Prime, forever. 
(Paxton passes out, and we see the beam hit San Francisco - the bay, harmlessly, apart from a tidal surge.) 
TUCKER: Looks like Paxton's aim was off. 
ARCHER: With a little help from you. 
TUCKER: Maybe a little. 
[T'Pol's room]
TRAVIS: Commander. 
T'POL: She's dying. 
Captain's Starlog January 22, 2155. Enterprise is returning to Earth. Paxton is in custody, but the consequences of his actions continue to affect us all. 
[Sickbay]
(T'Pol hangs an IDIC on the incubator.) 
TUCKER: I guess we shouldn't keep calling her she. 
T'POL: Elizabeth. 
TUCKER: My sister would've liked that. 
PHLOX: It appears my initial prognosis was incorrect. It's genetic. Her Vulcan and human DNA aren't compatible. 
TUCKER: Is there anything you can do? 
PHLOX: I'm attempting to stabilise her nucleotides, but there's never been a child like her. 
T'POL: Her name is Elizabeth. 
[Launch bay]
TRAVIS: I can't figure out why the console locked up at the same time the engines shut down. 
REED: It does seem a bit coincidental. 
TRAVIS: Flight control and engine power are routed separately. until they reach that junction. The panel's open. If ionised gas got in here, it could've melted the primary circuits of both systems. 
REED: It could've been knocked loose by an impact. 
TRAVIS: No. It's been forced. This was deliberate. 
[Kelby's quarters]
KELBY: Come in. 
REED: On your feet, sir. Shuttlepod One was sabotaged. 
KELBY: Sabotaged? 
REED: We nearly crashed! 
TRAVIS: Is this your signature? 
KELBY: Yeah. You think I had something to do with it? 
REED: Is there any reason why we shouldn't? 
KELBY: That's a shuttlepod maintenance log. Commander Tucker took me off that team when he came back from Columbia. 
REED: Who replaced you? Who! 
KELBY: Ensign Masaro. 
[Mess hall]
HOSHI: They really want to postpone the conference? 
SAMUELS: Postpone is a diplomatic way of saying it's dead. Paxton's unnerved them, and there's not a lot I've been able to say to change their minds. 
(Her communicator chirps.) 
HOSHI: Excuse me, sir. Sato, go ahead. 
[Archer's quarters]
ARCHER: It's Archer. Are you still with Samuels? 
[Mess hall]
HOSHI: We're in the mess hall. 
[Archer's quarters]
ARCHER: Is Ensign Masaro there? 
[Mess hall]
HOSHI: No, I don't see him, sir. 
[Corridor]
ARCHER: We think Masaro may be working for Terra Prime. 
[Mess hall]
ARCHER [OC]: Samuels may be in danger. 
[Corridor]
ARCHER: Reed and Mayweather are on their way. 
[Mess hall]
HOSHI: Wait here, sir. 
[Corridor]
(She meets Reed and Travis just outside the Mess hall.) 
HOSHI: Samuels is in here. He's safe. 
[Outside the Turbolift]
MASARO: (with a phase pistol) Captain. 
ARCHER: You don't want to do this. 
MASARO: (upset and scared) I have to. 
ARCHER: Give me the phase pistol. That's an order. 
MASARO: I can't, sir. 
ARCHER: Ensign. 
MASARO: I wanted you to know I'm sorry. I believed in what we were doing. Tell my parents I'm sorry. I never wanted anyone to get hurt. 
(He puts the gun to his own head, and pulls the trigger.) 
ARCHER: Ensign! 
[Sickbay]
(The loving parents are at the incubator of their dying child. Tucker's left arm is in a sling.) 
PHLOX: I wish I could do more. 
ARCHER: I know. 
PHLOX: When you invited me to join this crew, I thought it would be an interesting diversion for a few months. Some time away from the complications of family, which on Denobula can be extremely complicated. I didn't expect to gain another family. (close to tears) It hurts as if she were my own child. Make something good come from this, Captain. 
[Starfleet Command]
(Everyone is back around the table, and the Enterprise senior staff are standing at the end.) 
SAMUELS: Fellow delegates, this last week we've seen what humans can be at their worst. But we cannot, we must not use that as an excuse to end the dream that began here. For then, the demons of our past will have won. Instead, I want to look to the future and begin by honouring the people responsible for our being here tonight. They represent all of us at our best. 
ARCHER: Up until about a hundred years ago, there was one question that burned in every human, that made us study the stars and dream of traveling to them, Are we alone? Our generation is privileged to know the answer to that question. We are all explorers, driven to know what's over the horizon, what's beyond our own shores. And yet, the more I've experienced, the more I've learned that no matter how far we travel, or how fast we get there, the most profound discoveries are not necessarily beyond that next star. They're within us, woven into the threads that bind us, all of us, to each other. The final frontier begins in this hall. Let's explore it together. 
(Soval rises to his feet and begins the applause.) 
[Corridor]
GANNET: I hear the conference is back on track. 
TRAVIS: It's a first step. The Captain says it's going to take years to work out the details. 
GANNET: But it'll happen, and you're part of the reason why. 
TRAVIS: Just doing my job. 
GANNET: So was I. 
TRAVIS: I know. 
GANNET: If Vulcans and Andorians can get along, you'd think we could. 
TRAVIS: A lot of details to work out. 
(This angle shows us they are at the Transporter alcove.) 
GANNET: Isn't that the fast way home? 
TRAVIS: The least I can do is give you a ride. 
(He takes her hand.) 
TRAVIS: The Launch Bay's this way. 
[T'Pol's quarters]
T'POL: Come in. 
TUCKER: (trying not to cry) The delegates at the conference, they've asked about the service for, for Elizabeth. They want to attend. 
T'POL: She was important. 
TUCKER: There's something else. I spoke with Phlox. It turns out there was a flaw in the technique that Paxton's doctors used in the cloning process. Human DNA and Vulcan DNA, Phlox says there's no medical reason why they can't combine. So if a Vulcan and a human ever decided to have a child, it'd probably be okay. And that's sort of comforting. 
(T'Pol takes his hand) 
Transcribers personal note - with a slight rearrangement of the final scenes, it is my opinion that Enterprise should have ended with Archer's speech. The next episode is totally missable, unwarranted, and frankly even worse than Spock's Brain. And that's saying something when you're a life-long Trek fan as I am. 

