Episode Number: 6
The Enterprise Transcripts - Terra Nova
Terra Nova
Mission date: Unknown
Original Airdate: 21 Oct, 2001
[Bridge]
(Travis is looking at a series of archive pictures on his station monitor.)
TRAVIS: This was their first view of it. 
HOSHI: If you don't look too close, you'd think it was Earth. 
TRAVIS: Breaking ground on the town hall. 
HOSHI: Is that Captain Mitchell? 
TRAVIS: No, I think that's Mitchell. 
(Archer enters.)
ARCHER: Are we there yet? 
TRAVIS: Three hours seventeen minutes to go, sir. 
HOSHI: Travis has been digging through the archives. 
TRAVIS: There's tons of data here. Crew manifests, survey photos, weekly status reports. I was hoping to find something, a clue to what happened. 
ARCHER: You'd be the first. 
TRAVIS: I've been fascinated by Terra Nova since I was a kid, sir. I always thought lost colonies affected boomers more than anyone else. Something about people who choose to live off-world. 
HOSHI: Captain, do you think anyone's still there? 
ARCHER: I'll let you know in about three hours and seventeen minutes. 
[Captain's mess]
T'POL: Terra Nova? 
ARCHER: I'm surprised you've never heard of it. 
T'POL: I'm not familiar with the early years of human space exploration. 
TUCKER: Really? Every school kid on Earth had to learn about the famous Vulcan expeditions. 
T'POL: Name one. 
TUCKER: History was never my best subject. 
ARCHER: It was called the Great Experiment. Could humans colonise deep space? They'd already build New Berlin on the Moon, Utopia Planetia on Mars, even a few asteroid colonies, but all within our solar system. When they found an Earth-like planet less than twenty light-years away, it was hard to resist. 
TUCKER: It took them what, nine years to get there? 
ARCHER: Nine years there, nine years back, but they made it. 
TUCKER: My grandfather remembered seeing their first transmissions when he was a kid. 
T'POL: What happened to them? 
ARCHER: People have been trying to answer that question for a long time. No one's heard from Terra Nova in over seventy years. After the colony was built, relations with Earth became strained. The Space Agency figured nothing succeeds like success, so they decided to send another vessel. 
ARCHER: The colonists protested. They'd been there five years, this was their home. They didn't want another two hundred people arriving. The folks back on Earth argued that there weren't any other habitable planets within reach, but the colonists dug their heels in. There were a few angry messages sent back and forth, then one day nobody heard from them again. 
T'POL: Why didn't you send a vessel to find out what happened? 
ARCHER: Nine years there, nine years back, it would have been a pretty long trip. 
T'POL: A Vulcan ship could have made the journey in far less time. Why didn't you ask them? 
TUCKER: Asking favours of the Vulcans usually ends up carrying too high a price. 
T'POL: My experience with humans is limited, but I've come to learn that they're quite resourceful. Terra Nova may still be there, Captain. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Two hundred thousand kilometres. 
ARCHER: Let's see it.
(A blue and white planet appears on the viewscreen.) 
TRAVIS: I promised my dad I'd see this place someday. 
ARCHER: Put us in orbit over the colony. 
(Hoshi nods that she's opened a channel.) 
ARCHER: Terra Nova colony, this is Captain Jonathan Archer of the Starship Enterprise. We've come from Earth. Please respond. 
HOSHI: No answer, sir. 
ARCHER: Any biosigns? 
T'POL: No, but the colony appears to be intact. I'm also detecting low levels of surface radiation. 
ARCHER: From what? 
T'POL: I can't tell. 
ARCHER: Let's take a look. 
(The viewscreen zooms in.) 
ARCHER: Closer. 
TUCKER: Looks like a ghost town. 
ARCHER: Let's hope the ghosts can give us some answers. How bad is the radiation. 
T'POL: Less than eight hundred millirads. A few hours of exposure shouldn't pose a risk. 
ARCHER: Trip, take the Bridge. Travis. 
(Reed goes too.) 
[Terra Nova Colony]
(The shuttlepod lands, and two crescent moons hang in the sky. A bicycle is abandoned, the buildings are tubular framed.) 
TRAVIS: A housing unit. 
T'POL: No sign of weapons fire, only rust. 
ARCHER: Whatever happened, I've got to believe they tried to let Earth know about it. 
TRAVIS: We've got the schematics for the communications tower. 
ARCHER: Good. See if the data buffer's intact. We might be able to access their last transmission logs. 
TRAVIS: Aye, sir. 
ARCHER: (to Reed) Walk the perimeter. See what you can find. 
T'POL: Judging by the isotope decays, the radiation levels seventy years ago would have been lethal. 
ARCHER: If that's what killed them, where are the bodies? 
T'POL: Maybe they left the planet before it could affect them. 
ARCHER: That would have been difficult. That's a bulkhead. They designed their ship to be disassembled. That's how they built the colony. It was a one-way trip. 
(Out in the brush, Reed's scanner beeps) 
REED: Hello? 
(He sees a figure move, and talks into his communicator.) 
REED: We're not alone, sir. There's someone in the forest. 
ARCHER: We're on our way. 
[Cave entrance]
(Reed haa chased the figure all the way to a cave entrance.)
REED: I believe he went in there. 
ARCHER: You get a look at him? 
REED: Yeah, he appeared to be a couple of metres tall, biped, odd-looking scales. 
T'POL: This leads to a network of caverns that extend for several hundred metres. 
ARCHER: Archer to Mayweather. 
TRAVIS [OC]: Go ahead, sir. 
ARCHER: Get back to the shuttle and grab a pair of flashlights. Make it quick. 
TRAVIS [OC]: Yes, sir. 
[Cave tunnel]
(Armed with flashlights and phase pistols, Reed and Archer head in while Travis and T'Pol stand guard outside.) 
REED: It'd be best if I went first, sir. 
(He crawls through a small opening into another cavern. There's a noise behind them, and they see the tail of an armadillo-type creature disappearing through another hole.) 
ARCHER: After you. 
(Further on they find a storeroom with a collection of dead armadillos, metal cooking pots, knives. Reed spots small faces watching them from above.) 
REED: Captain. 
ARCHER: My name is Archer. We're looking for some people. I was hoping you could help us. (puts down knife) We're not going to hurt you. We're just trying to find out what happened to them.;
(A man rushes in with a weapon, they stun him and the small faces vanish. A second man come in and fires a percussion weapon. Archer and Reed run, but the Captain is hit in the arm.) ARCHER: Which way? 
[Cave entrance]
T'POL: T'Pol to Captain Archer. 
[Cave tunnel]
T'POL [OC]: Captain? 
ARCHER: We're under attack, and I think we just took a wrong turn. We could use a little help navigating down here. 
[Cave entrance]
T'POL: Just a moment. In approximately three metres, a tunnel will branch off to your left. 
[Cave tunnel]
T'POL [OC]: Take it. 
ARCHER: I don't see a tunnel. 
[Cave entrance]
T'POL: Correction, ten metres. 
[Cave tunnel]
(They get back to the small opening they originally came through. There are shots and Reed falls.) 
REED: I'm all right, sir.;
(He gets jumped by a man. Arche is on 
the other side of the opening.
) 
ARCHER: Malcolm?;
(He;looks back through the opening. There's just a flashlight on the ground, then shots drive him back.);
ARCHER: Malcolm? 
[Cave entrance]
(A man comes flying out and jumps Travis. T'Pol stuns him. Then Archer comes out to gunfire accompaniment.) 
TRAVIS: Where's Malcolm? 
ARCHER: Go.;
(The three leave quickly.) 
[Shuttlecraft]
ARCHER: Take us up. 
TRAVIS: If those aliens killed the colonists, they could kill Malcolm too. 
T'POL: Those weren't aliens. They're human. 
[Corridor]
TRAVIS: I don't get it. If they're human, why were they shooting at us? 
[Turbolift]
ARCHER: Archer to the Bridge. What have you found? 
TUCKER [OC]: We've got a 
[Situation room]
TUCKER: Pretty good picture of those caverns, and we've picked up fifty two biosigns so far. All human. 
[Turbolift]
ARCHER: The only one I'm interested in right now is Lieutenant Reed. We've got to get him out of there. 
[Situation room]
ARCHER [OC]: Have you found him? 
TUCKER: Yes, sir. He's about ninety metres below the surface. 
HOSHI: He's not responding to hails, Captain, but he's alive. 
[Turbolift]
ARCHER: Have Doctor Phlox join us in the Situation room. 
TUCKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
ARCHER: If these are the descendants of the original colonists, they've never seen other humans before. Maybe we look as strange to them as they did to us. 
[Situation room]
TUCKER: Twelve point six kilometres worth of tunnels. Looks like they even dug a few wells. The geology's a little shaky. Some of these passageways have collapsed. 
T'POL: They may have been driven underground by the radiation. 
ARCHER: Have you figured out what caused it? 
TUCKER: Not yet. 
HOSHI: What do they do for food? 
PHLOX: Many species feed on underground fauna and flora. Tubers, fungi, insects. 
ARCHER: They also hunt some kind of burrowing animal. Where's Malcolm? 
TUCKER: Right here, sir. There are two people with him. 
TRAVIS: Can we use the transporter? 
TUCKER: He's too deep. 
T'POL: A section of this tunnel is collapsed. It's empty. If we could get into it, we could clear the obstruction with phase pistols. We'd be less than twenty metres from Lieutenant Reed. 
HOSHI: What about these two? We have to assume they're armed. 
TUCKER: A stun grenade would solve that problem. 
ARCHER: I don't want to risk any more casualties. Despite how they look, they're still human. We've got to find some way to talk to them. 
TRAVIS: They didn't seem too eager to talk. 
ARCHER: If I can't make first contact with other humans I don't have any business being out here. Malcolm was shot. Grab your medical kit and meet me at the launch bay. 
PHLOX: Right away, sir. 
T'POL: Captain. 
ARCHER: (to T'Pol) Try to find out what irradiated the surface. You and Hoshi get to work on that data buffer. I want to know if they tried to send any messages to Earth. 
[Planet surface]
PHLOX: Do you think they know we've returned? 
ARCHER: Hard not to hear a shuttlepod landing on your roof. 
(He stops walking.) 
ARCHER: I'm unarmed. I just want to talk. 
(Both raise their arms.) 
ARCHER: I'm concerned about my officer. I'd like to see him.;
(Two men appear with weapons and lead them away.) 
[Cavern]
(They are taken to where Reed is being held prisoner.) 
REED: Fancy meeting you here. 
ARCHER: How's the leg? 
REED: I've lost a bit of blood, sir, but I don't think it's too serious. 
PHLOX: May I have my medical supplies, please? 
(An older man with white and blue face markings comes in, accompanied by an old woman.) 
JAMIN: Human? 
ARCHER: That's right. 
JAMIN: What's that? 
PHLOX: My name is Phlox. I am a Denobulan. I'm Captain Archer's physician. 
JAMIN: You tracked from Earth on a sky ship. 
ARCHER: It's called Enterprise. 
JAMIN: To what, gut the rest of us? 
ARCHER: No. We're here to find out what happened to the colony. We came to help you. 
ATHAN: Novans have had enough help from you. 
JAMIN: We're not so easy to hunt as diggers. Go back to the overside or we'll seal your passage. 
ARCHER: I told you, we're not here to hurt anybody. 
JAMIN: Take that one, and don't track back. 
ARCHER: All right, but he won't be able to get through these tunnels on one leg. My doctor needs to treat him. 
(Phlox gets his medical case back and starts scanning Reed's leg.) 
ARCHER: What makes you think we're here to hurt you? 
JAMIN: Humans hurt Novans. 
ARCHER: Why do you think that? 
JAMIN: They gutted us. Our families, our before-families. 
ARCHER: I don't understand. 
NADET: Poison rain. I was no taller than a digger, but I can still see back. We lived on the overside, then the humans dropped the poison, burned our skin, gutted the grown ones. There was no place to go but here. 
ARCHER: To the underside. I think I know what you're talking about. The poison rain, it was some kind of radiation. I don't know what caused it but I'm sure it wasn't humans. 
PHLOX: He can walk, more or less, but I'll need to get him back to Sickbay to remove the projectile. 
ARCHER: I know this'll be hard for you to accept, but you're the descendants of human beings. Your ancestors colonised this planet over seventy years ago. They came from Earth, just like I did. I don't know what happened, but maybe we could work together and find out. 
ATHAN: He speaks in shale. 
ARCHER: If that's your way of calling me a liar, give me a chance to prove what I'm saying. My sky ship has tools that can help us find out what happened here. 
JAMIN: No. 
PHLOX: Are you aware that your mother is sick? 
(Phlox refers to his scanner.) 
PHLOX: This is one of the tools the Captain spoke of. It can tell me all kinds of things about the inside of your body. She has an illness that we call lung cancer, but it's easily cured. 
ARCHER: Doctor Phlox can make her well, but she'd have to come back to our ship. 
ATHAN: This is shale. They want to trap us on the overside to gut us. 
JAMIN: How long of a day would it take? 
PHLOX: Not long. A few hours at most. 
JAMIN: Hours? 
ARCHER: She'd be back before the sun rises on the overside. Let us help you. 
JAMIN: We track together. This one stays. 
ARCHER: He needs to be treated as well. 
PHLOX: He'll be fine for a few hours. 
REED: Don't worry about me, sir. I was just getting used to the place. 
ARCHER: Probably best if you lead the way. 
[Shuttlepod]
(The old woman is fascinated as they approach Enterprise to dock. Archer is at the controls.) 
ARCHER: That's Enterprise. It's a lot like the ship that brought the colonists to this planet. It was called the Conestoga. Maybe you were born on board, or were you born after your parents got here? 
NADET: My parents were Novans. They came from the overside. 
[Sickbay]
(The woman is in the body scanner, and very unhappy.) 
NADET [OC]: No more! Let me out! 
JAMIN: Open the passage.;
PHLOX: Just a few more seconds. 
JAMIN: Open it. 
ARCHER: It's all right.
(It opens. She comes out and sits up immediately.) 
PHLOX: My apologies for any discomfort. 
JAMIN: Is she healed? 
PHLOX: Not quite. First we have to determine how far her sickness has spread. 
(He refers to a monitor.) 
PHLOX: That is you. The inside of you, anyway. This picture will tell me what kind of treatment she'll require. Interstitial tumours. The malignancy has spread to her lymphatic system. She'll need a series of cytolitic injections. 
JAMIN: Injections? 
ARCHER: Medicine. He's just going to give her some medicine. 
PHLOX: I'll need a few minutes to synthesise it. 
ARCHER: I've got some other pictures you might like to see. One of my crewmen found these in our database. 
(Archer calls up the expedition files Travis was looking at.) 
ARCHER: They might help you remember what it was like living on the overside before the poison rain. 
JAMIN: It's human shale. They're confusing your path. You'll lose your tracks in this. 
ARCHER: I'm just trying to help you see how you got here. 
JAMIN: All I see is digger filth. 
ARCHER: Well look again. Because whether you want to believe it or not, we're both human. 
JAMIN: Bury your drawings. 
(Archer 
clears monitor.)
ARCHER: Doctor, keep me posted. 
Captain's starlog, supplemental. Sub-Commander T'Pol has discovered the remnants of an impact crater that could explain the radiation. 
[Situation room]
ARCHER: How far away is it? 
T'POL: About five hundred kilometres north. 
TUCKER: How deep? 
T'POL: It's been partially filled in by erosion over the years, but I'm reading impact fractures down to nearly two thousand metres. 
ARCHER: Comet or an asteroid? 
T'POL: An asteroid. A large one. The tectonic analysis puts the impact at approximately seventy years ago. 
ARCHER: The poison rain. 
T'POL: The geology was comprised primarily of beresium ore. The thermo-shock would have created a radioactive cloud that probably covered the northern hemisphere for more than a year. 
TUCKER: They spent all those years getting here, and for what? 
[Cavern]
REED: That's an old MK-33, isn't it? Or is it a 34? Impressive body armour you're wearing. Did you make it yourself? Right. I don't suppose there's a lavatory on the premises, is there? I wouldn't mind freshening up a little. No. Didn't think so. 
(Athan puts down his gun and picks up a digger carcass to eat.)
ATHAN: Is your belly hollow? 
REED: That all depends. What's for dinner? 
(Athan puts another 'bowl' in front of Reed.) 
ATHAN: Digger meat. 
REED: Looks a little undercooked. 
ATHAN: Humans are like damp moss. They rot on the underside. 
REED: (eating a piece) Not bad. 
(Some young people are playing wind instruments made from digger skulls and other bones, a haunting gently melody.) 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Come in. 
HOSHI: It's a transmission, sir. It's the last one anyone made, as far as we can tell. It was still in the buffer. 
TRAVIS: It's Captain Mitchell. 
MITCHELL [OC]: No matter how angry Logan's threats may have seemed, there had to have been a way of dealing with this other than attacking us. Nearly half the adults are dead, including Doctor Tracey, and everyone else is getting sick, except for the younger children. If they have any chance of surviving, the least you could do is have the Vulcans send a ship for them, but for all I know they were the ones you talked into attacking us. You wanted Terra Nova enough to do this? Well it's yours now, but I doubt you'll be very pleased with what you find when you get here. 
TRAVIS: Mark Logan was the head of the opposition, the ones who were against a second wave of settlers. Supposedly, he threatened to fire at any ship that came into orbit. 
HOSHI: The irony is that Captain Mitchell's message never reached Earth. The debris in the atmosphere was too dense. 
ARCHER: So, for some reason, the young kids survive and begin living underground. Their last memories of their parents are hearing them blame humans for destroying the colony. The idea that humans are the enemy has been embedded in them for more than two generations. This isn't going to be easy. 
PHLOX [OC]: Sickbay to Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
PHLOX [OC]: Could you come see me, please. 
[Just outside Sickbay]
ARCHER: Is everything all right? 
PHLOX: Nadet's cancer has been eliminated. 
ARCHER: Nice work. 
PHLOX: But I found something quite troubling. Both she and her son are showing signs of microcellular decay in their endocrine systems. Their underground water supply has probably become contaminated. I don't have any medication to treat this, and it's only going to get worse. 
ARCHER: Would bringing them to the surface help? 
PHLOX: T'Pol says the soil and foliage is going to remain irradiated for at least another decade. 
ARCHER: How's she doing? 
PHLOX: She's as disagreeable as she was before I treated her. 
ARCHER: Bring them to the Situation room. 
[Situation room]
JAMIN: We are not leaving. 
ARCHER: It's not safe for you anymore. When the asteroid hit, the fallout contained certain poisons. Humans under the age of four or five can usually build up an immunity to them. That's why they survived. 
PHLOX: For the last two or three generations that immunity kept you all alive, but now the poisons have gotten into your water supply. As Captain Archer says, it is no longer safe. 
NADET: You humans tried to gut our go-befores when they lived on the overside. Now you're trying to gut us. 
T'POL: Doctor Phlox just saved your life. Perhaps you should give him the benefit of the doubt. After all, he's not human. Neither am I. 
JAMIN: Giant rocks falling from the sky. Shale, it's all shale! Take us back. 
ARCHER: I went through about two to three hundred photographs before I found this. 
(A family group, with a small child.) 
ARCHER: Look familiar, Nadet? 
NADET: It's the overside, before the poison rain. 
ARCHER: And what about the people? 
NADET: Humans. 
ARCHER: What were humans doing in your colony before it was destroyed? I think I can help answer that. 
(He zooms in on it.) 
ARCHER: You're sure none of these people look familiar? From the data we retrieved on this photograph, we're pretty sure this woman's name was Vera Fuller. Ring a bell? 
JAMIN: It's the medicine they put in you. They're confusing your path. We need to leave. 
ARCHER: Look closely. 
(Archer zooms in on the girl on the woman's lap.) 
ARCHER: Vera Fuller. What do you remember? 
JAMIN: Shale! They're trying to trap you. 
ARCHER: Vera had a daughter named Bernadette. She'd be about seventy five now in Earth years. 
NADET: Nadet? Bernadette? You say this is me? 
JAMIN: They're trying to make us leave the underside. If we're not back before day, your crewman will be gutted. Take us back. 
ARCHER: Is her treatment finished? 
PHLOX: I should take one more thoracic scan. 
ARCHER: Fine. As soon as you're done, bring them to the Launch bay. Sub-Commander.
(They leave the group.) 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: There are fifty eight human beings in those tunnels and they're all going to die if we don't get them out of it, and what do they think? They think we're a bunch of hostile aliens trying to take their colony over. 
T'POL: Stun grenades. 
ARCHER: What? 
T'POL: Commander Tucker's continued to enhance the sensor resolution of their tunnels. We could transport stun grenades to specific locations, detonate them, and use both shuttlepods to bring them back to the ship. 
ARCHER: And then what, put them in chains? 
T'POL: I'm sure Mister Reed could devise appropriate restraints. 
ARCHER: What the hell do you think this is, a slave shi? We can't relocate them by force. 
T'POL: The alternative was made quite clear by Doctor Phlox. 
ARCHER: We have to convince them that returning to Earth is the right thing. We can't take them by force. 
T'POL: Are you certain it is the right thing? 
ARCHER: What are you talking about? 
T'POL: When you get them back to Earth, what will you do? Send them to school, teach them to read and write, wear human clothing, eat human food, teach them to live on the surface, enjoy the sunshine? 
ARCHER: You're damn straight. They're human beings. It's their birthright. It might take a little while, but they'll adapt. It's a hell of a lot better than dying down in those tunnels. 
T'POL: They've lived in those tunnels for three generations. You can't just pluck them up and bring them to a strange world and hope they'll learn to conform. You'd be destroying their identity, destroying the Novan culture. 
ARCHER: Archer to Tucker. 
TUCKER [OC]: Captain. 
ARCHER: Get up here on the double and bring your maps with you. 
[Situation room]
TUCKER: The debris cloud reached to about here, ten or twelve degrees north of the equator. 
ARCHER: Southern hemisphere? 
T'POL: Unaffected by the asteroid. 
PHLOX [OC]: Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead, Doc. 
PHLOX [OC]: The two Novans are in Shuttlepod one. Will you be escorting them back to the surface? 
ARCHER: I'll be there in a couple of minutes. There's got to be similar underground topography on one of these southern continents. Caves, caverns. Find them. Put that on a PADD for me. And it wouldn't hurt if they were crawling with those, what do they call them, diggers. 
[Shuttlepod]
ARCHER: Your planet has three large islands to the south. We call them continents. The climate is nearly identical to your overside. We don't know how similar the underside is, but my people are working on that now. The important thing is, the poison rain never fell there. You'd be safe. Your children would be safe. You could even spend time on the overside if you wanted to. 
JAMIN: If our tunnels are infected you wouldn't want them so badly. 
TRAVIS: We don't. We only want to help you, make you healthy. 
ARCHER: Was that photograph of Vera Fuller and her daughter shale? Do you really believe we created it to trick you? You're human. So am I. Humans help each other. 
JAMIN: When we track back to the underside, we'll return your crewman only if you promise to leave. 
TRAVIS: I've got the landing site locked in, Captain. 
ARCHER: Would you at least talk to your people, tell them what I proposed? 
(the shuttlepod lands at the original colony site. There's a sudden jolt) 
TRAVIS: Our thrusters are down.;
(The pod shakes.) 
ARCHER: Fire them up again.
(But the pod falls through the ground into a crevice.) 
TRAVIS: Pod One to Enterprise, we've got an emergency. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: Is anyone hurt? 
[Shuttlepod]
(The pod come to a halt.) 
ARCHER: We're okay, but getting out of here is going to be tricky. Can you give us the coordinates;
(The pod moves again.) 
T'POL [OC]: Captain? 
ARCHER: I think we're done dropping. How far have we gone? 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: You're down about eight metres. Looks like a couple of the abandoned tunnels gave way. 
[Shuttlepod]
JAMIN: Open it. Open it. 
ARCHER: Hold on. Trip, if I open the port hatch, what am I going to find? 
JAMIN: Open it! 
TUCKER [OC]: You're on the floor of a stable tunnel. You should be okay. 
ARCHER: You're going to have to build a rig to get this pod back on the surface. 
TUCKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Tunnel]
(The hatch catches against the tunnel wall, but they can squeeze out.) 
JAMIN: We're in the downslope passage. We need to pass the cut-through to get to your crewman. Give me your pistol. 
ARCHER: What are you talking about? 
JAMIN: If you want to see your human alive, you'll give me your pistol.;
(Archer hands it over. Jamin and Nadet lead the way.) 
ARCHER: Stay here with the shuttle. Keep your comm. open.;
(Travis throws him a torch.)
VOICE [OC}: Help! 
ARCHER: Hold on a second. Do you hear that? 
VOICE [OC]: Help! Help me! Can anyone 
NADET: It's Akary. 
[Well]
(Akary is trapped under a log at the bottom of the well.) 
AKARY: Help! Help! 
JAMIN: He must have fallen when your sky ship quaked the tunnels. Are you hurt? 
AKARY: I'm leg-broke. The wood has me sealed down. 
JAMIN: Would you risk your bones to save a Novan? 
ARCHER: I'll do what I can, but I doubt I can make it down there. 
JAMIN: We'll track together, but you'll need to trust me. 
(Jamin leads the way, but Archer slips and is dangling from one hand until Jamin hauls him back to safety. They make it to the bottom.);
JAMIN: The water's rising. We have to hurry.;
(They heave at the log, but they can't move it.) 
ARCHER: I need you to give me my phase pistol. My gun. 
JAMIN: Why, so you can go free your hostage? 
ARCHER: So I can free this man. It's your turn to trust me.;
(Jamin hands it over and Archer uses it to cut the log in half.);
ARCHER: Give me a hand. Ready.;
(They lift, and Akary wriggles free.) 
[Cavern]
(They carry Akary into the cave where Reed is being held.) 
REED: Captain. 
ARCHER: How are you holding up? 
REED: Not badly, all things considered, but I really wouldn't mind getting this bullet out of my leg. 
NADET: Tell them. Tell them what Archer said about the islands to the south. 
JAMIN: They promised to leave. Let them go. We'll be fine here. 
NADET: We're not fine. None of us is fine. We're rotting, all of us. 
JAMIN: They've promised to leave. 
NADET: I've seen back. Vera Fuller was my mother. That girl in the picture was me, a human girl. Our go-befores shared the same path. We should listen. 
[Captain's mess]
TRAVIS: Ever heard of Judge Crater? 
T'POL: Crater? 
TRAVIS: Disappeared in the early twentieth century. How about Amelia Earhart? 
T'POL: No. 
TRAVIS: 
1937
. Never found a trace of her. A lot of people spent years, decades, trying to figure out what happened to them, but neither of those mysteries holds a candle to Terra Nova. And we solved it! 
TUCKER: Did more than that. Those people were a year or two away from extinction. We didn't just find them, we saved their lives. 
TRAVIS: All these years wondering about that colony. I never thought I'd become part of their history. 
ARCHER: Tell you what, Travis. Why don't you put together the report for Starfleet. If I'm not mistaken, it'll be headline news back home. 
TUCKER: The Terra Nova puzzle, solved at last, as told by Ensign Travis Mayweather. 
TRAVIS: Thank you, sir. 

