Episode Number: 66
The Enterprise Transcripts - Stratagem
Stratagem
Mission date: Dec 12, 2153
Original Airdate: 1 Feb, 2004
[Shuttle]
(Degra wakes up on the floor of a small vessel. He's dishevelled, his hair is long, and they are being attacked.) 
DEGRA: who are you? 
(Archer is at the controls, also dishevelled with long hair.) 
ARCHER: They're targeting our engines. 
DEGRA: What do you want with me? 
ARCHER: You're the weapons expert. See if you can get those shields back online. If we don't raise the shields, the only that's going to be left of this ship is a cloud of vapour. 
(He pushes Degra aside and does it himself. 
Degra looks out of the porthole.
)
DEGRA: Insectoids! 
ARCHER: These could be shield emitters. They're not going to last for long. 
DEGRA: Open a channel to those ships. 
ARCHER: What? 
DEGRA: They're Xindi. I'll order them to hold their fire. 
ARCHER: It's been a long time since any Xindi took orders from you. We're carrying five hundred litres of warp plasma in the starboard tanks. We'll have to vent it. Turn these down on my mark. They're going to destroy us. Now! 
DEGRA: What happened? 
ARCHER: The plasma got into their intake manifolds. Their engines are overheating. 
DEGRA: I want to know who you are. Why you've abducted me. 
ARCHER: You really don't remember. I was afraid this might happen. It's me, Archer. 
DEGRA: What species are you? 
ARCHER: You've been through a lot in the last two days. Just let me figure out 
DEGRA: What species! 
ARCHER: I'm human. 
(Degra backs away as far as he can.) 
DEGRA: You're from the Earth vessel. 
ARCHER: Degra, you have to listen to me. I'm not your enemy anymore. You've spent the last two days in an interrogation chamber. Whatever the insectoids did to you in there must have affected your memory. My name is Jonathan Archer. The two of us just escaped from an insectoid prison colony. 
DEGRA: Prison? 
ARCHER: We've shared a cell for almost three years. 
DEGRA: That's not possible. 
ARCHER: Roll up your sleeves. 
(They have similar tattoos on their forearms.) 
ARCHER: The conflict between our people is over. We both lost. I promise I'll explain everything. Right now we have to get out of here before our friends out there repair their engines. 
DEGRA: What are you doing? 
ARCHER: There's a system about a week from here. It's isolated. I doubt they'll look for us there. 
(As the shuttle rattles to warp, Degra stares in disbelief at his reflection in a porthole.);
DEGRA: You expect me to believe my own people would hold me prisoner? You think that's amusing? 
ARCHER: It's been a while since you referred to those overgrown grasshoppers as your own people. 
DEGRA: Why don't I remember you? 
ARCHER: Probably because of the bloodworms. 
DEGRA: Bloodworms? 
ARCHER: They're used during interrogations. Their secretions act as a truth serum, makes the prisoners more co-operative. But there's a side effect. Sometimes they can suppress memories. The same thing happened when they questioned me. I forgot everything that happened since flight school. It'll start to come back to you. Give it a few days.
DEGRA: You claim that I've been a prisoner for three years. 
ARCHER: Three years. 
DEGRA: If that's true, why would they question me now? 
ARCHER: They wanted information about the weapon. 
DEGRA: What kind of information? 
ARCHER: This is going to take some time. What's the last thing you remember? 
DEGRA: I was on my vessel, approaching the planet in the Calindra system. 
ARCHER: The weapons test. It failed because your prototype was sabotaged. 
DEGRA: How would you know that? 
ARCHER: Because I'm responsible for it. Your kemocite shipment was tampered with. 
DEGRA: Gralik. 
ARCHER: He wasn't too happy when I told him what you were planning to do with his kemocite. 
DEGRA: He'll be executed for this. 
ARCHER: He was. In the end it didn't make much of a difference. We didn't stop your programme, we only slowed it down. A few weeks later the weapon was launched. It destroyed my planet. 
DEGRA: We were successful? 
ARCHER: I don't know if you'd call it a success. After Earth was destroyed the old Xindi rivalries surfaced again. The insectoids started attacking other Xindi colonies. They killed thousands of your people. 
DEGRA: The reptilians and aquatics would never allow that. 
ARCHER: There wasn't a lot they could do. While you were busy constructing the weapon, the insectoids were secretly building hundreds of new ships. They used Earth as a diversion. Their real goal was to dominate the other Xindi species. Are you all right? 
(Something moves under the skin of Degra's forearm.) 
ARCHER: It's just a bloodworm. It'll work its was out. 
DEGRA: Can you remove it?
(Archer rummages in a couple of lockers and finds a knife and a glass vial.) 
ARCHER: Hold still. 
(Archer cuts into Degra's arm, pulls out the six inch long worm and puts it in the vial. Putting things away again afterwards, he finds a bottle of something.) 
ARCHER: I think you need this more than I do. Suit yourself. 
(He takes a swig.) 
DEGRA: I don't understand how a Xindi and a human could put aside their differences so quickly. 
ARCHER: Trust me, it didn't happen overnight. 
(He points at to scar on his forehead.) 
ARCHER: You gave me this the first day we were locked up together. The guards thought it would be entertaining to put us in the same cell. They even placed wagers on who would survive the longest. I was in pretty bad shape at the time so you were the odds-on favourite. Your people killed everyone I ever cared about. I was going to make sure you never walked out of that cell. For weeks we tried to kill each other. I was lying in the infirmary when I finally asked myself, what was the point. My world was gone, but so was yours. So I made a proposal. The two of us would work together to get out of that place. Took us longer than either one of us thought, but here we are. 
DEGRA: I don't recognise this type of ship. 
ARCHER: It's a Malosian cargo shuttle. 
DEGRA: Malosian. 
ARCHER: They're traders. They bring supplies to the prison a few times a month. No weapons, but she's sturdy enough to get us where we're going. 
DEGRA: Perhaps we should set a course to your vessel. Is it still in the Expanse? 
ARCHER: Not exactly. When we were getting close to finding your weapon the insectoids sent their ships after us. They boarded Enterprise and took me prisoner, then they planted spatial charges around our warp reactor. My crew was still aboard when they detonated them. 
DEGRA: The insectoids were always the aggressive species, but I never thought them capable of this. They destroyed everything the Council worked for. 
ARCHER: The Council? 
DEGRA: It was formed when our planet was destroyed. It was created to find a new home world for all Xindi. After years of searching we found a few suitable locations, but as usual couldn't agree on a final choice. Our plan for reunification was put aside when we learned of the threat from Earth. I was ordered to begin designing the weapon. I devoted years to it. I made so many sacrifices. So did my wife. Do I know what happened to my family? 
ARCHER: You told me you'd heard from Naara before you were sent to prison. She and the children were safe. We have a ship now. We can look for them. 
DEGRA: They were on a colony near a red giant. 
ARCHER: There's nothing in range. Do you remember the coordinates? 
DEGRA: I doubt if there's anything left. It would have been one of the first colonies to be attacked. 
ARCHER: There may have been survivors. 
DEGRA: It's too dangerous. Patrol ships are still looking for us. We should find a refuge in case. 
(There's a hiss, and green gas starts coming into the cabin.) 
ARCHER: Reactor coolant. The conduit must have ruptured in the attack. Take it. 
(The only oxygen mask.)
DEGRA: What about you? 
ARCHER: You're the one with a family. You want to see them again? Try to seal the rupture. I'll see if I can close off the coolant tanks. 
(Archer collapses as Degra seals the gash with a mini welder. Once he's done it, he shares the oxygen with Archer as the air clears. Later, as Degra sleeps, Archer gets a hypospray from its hiding place and injects him.) 
[Command centre]
ARCHER [on monitor]: T'Pol. 
(She presses a button and the shuttle's doors open.) 
[Cargo Bay two]
PHLOX: He should remain unconscious for at least two hours. 
TUCKER: The son of a bitch designed the weapon. 
ARCHER: Keep an eye on him. Trip.; 
[Command centre]
ARCHER: What have we got? 
T'POL: There are seven red giants in this region, but they're spread over approximately forty light years. 
ARCHER: Can we scan them for a weapons facility? 
T'POL: Not at this distance. 
TUCKER: This red giant might be a red herring. He only told you his family was living near one of these stars. We don't know that the weapon is there. 
ARCHER: Degra's a senior official. We know he's designing the weapon. There's a chance he'd keep his family close by. 
HOSHI: For a moment, I thought he was going to give you the co-ordinates. 
TUCKER: Too bad he didn't go for the Andorian ale. That would've loosened him up. 
T'POL: You appear to have gained his trust. Perhaps you should try a more direct approach. 
ARCHER: What do you mean? 
T'POL: Ask him where the weapon is being constructed. 
ARCHER: It's too risky. If he suspects something, we'll wind up right back where we started. He'll tell me. I just need a little more time. 
Three Days Earlier
Captain's starlog, December 12th, 2153. We've returned to the site where the Xindi were testing the prototype weapon. An analysis of the debris may tell us more about it. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: I'm picking up a ship at the edge of the system. 
T'POL: It's Xindi. 
ARCHER: Why didn't we see it before? 
T'POL: It may have been travelling through one of the subspace vortices that they use. It's hull signature matches the Xindi ships that were here two days ago. 
REED: Captain, I'm reading three biosigns on board. 
ARCHER: Have they seen us yet? 
T'POL: I don't believe so. 
[Degra's ship]
DEGRA: Set course for the inner moon. Stand by to deploy the sensor drones. 
(The ship shudders.) 
DEGRA: What's that? 
THALEN: Weapons fire. 
DEGRA: From where? 
THALEN: There's a ship closing. It's the human vessel. 
DEGRA: You said there was no one in the system. 
THALEN: They must have been hiding in the debris. 
DEGRA: Contact the Council. 
THALEN: They've disabled our subspace transceiver. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: They're making a run for it. 
ARCHER: See what you can do about their engines. 
(Four phase cannon shots later.) 
REED: They're not going anywhere, sir. 
ARCHER: Hail them. 
(Hoshi opens the channel and nods.) 
ARCHER: Stand down and prepare to be boarded. 
[Degra's ship]
DEGRA: Thalen. 
(He does something to a computer panel. Later, when the two ships are docked together.) 
ARCHER: Anything? 
T'POL: They were attempting to erase the computer core when we boarded the ship. There's very little data left. 
ARCHER: What about navigational logs? 
T'POL: They've been deleted. 
HOSHI: I may have something here, sir. I think these are fragments from a personal file. There are parts of a letter from someone named Degra. 
ARCHER: Does it mention the weapon? 
HOSHI: No. There's a reference to a planet he visited recently, Azati Prime. 
ARCHER: Let me know what else you find. 
(He goes over to Tucker studying the engines.) 
TUCKER: I'd love to spend an afternoon taking this engine apart. 
ARCHER: Not your typical nacelle configuration? 
TUCKER: Look how everything's tied in through their main deflector. 
ARCHER: Learn everything you can. 
[Brig]
(Archer activates the intercom.) 
ARCHER: I want to know where you're building the weapon. 
DEGRA: I don't know what you're talking about. 
ARCHER: The hell you don't. Your name is Degra. I was at the Xindi colony when you picked up your shipment of kemocite. Your people are planning another attack. I'm not going to let that happen. 
DEGRA: By capturing us, you've accomplished nothing. 
ARCHER: Where's the weapon? 
(The power fluctuates.) 
ARCHER: Archer to the Bridge. Report. 
[Bridge]
REED: There's a surge in the plasma network. 
ARCHER [OC]: What's causing it? 
TRAVIS: Radiation from the debris field. It's starting to affect our systems. 
REED: Sir, I recommend putting a safe distance between us and the test site. 
ARCHER: All right. Take the ship out of the field but keep us close by. 
REED: Understood. 
[Brig]
ARCHER: If you won't tell me what I need to know, perhaps one of your men will. 
DEGRA: When my superiors learn we're missing, they'll find your ship and destroy it. 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: I could make a truth serum, but it could take weeks to synthesise the correct formula. I've been studying Xindi neuro-physiology. It may be possible to erase his most recent memory engrams. That way Degra will never know that he came aboard, or that he met any of us. 
ARCHER: But this is a Xindi reptilian. Would it work on a primate? 
PHLOX: Their neural pathways are virtually identical. I'll need to perform a few tests, but I don't expect it will be a problem. 
ARCHER: How selective could this memory wipe be? 
[Situation room]
TUCKER: I've built flight simulators for Starfleet training. This wouldn't be that different. 
REED: It's not simply a matter of constructing a shuttle, it has to be designed. What species built it, what language would the control interface use. 
ARCHER: Hoshi can help with that. 
HOSHI: I've recovered a letter Degra wrote to his wife a few months ago. Her name's Naara. They have two children. 
T'POL: It may be necessary to communicate with you while you're inside the simulator. 
REED: The MACOs use subdermal transceivers. 
PHLOX: They're relatively easy to implant. 
ARCHER: Let's get started. 
(The meeting adjourns.) 
ARCHER: T'Pol, I could use your help with some of the details. 
T'POL: Details? 
ARCHER: If he buys into this, Degra's going to want to know everything that's happened in the last three years. I can't make up the whole story on the spot. 
[Sickbay]
ARCHER: Nice work. 
(Phlox is making Degra's tattoo.) 
PHLOX: Thank you. Dermal art used to be very common on Denobula. Fortunately, my parents insisted I study it. I've also stimulated his hair follicles. 
ARCHER: I'm not sure about the grey. This is only supposed to be three years from now. 
PHLOX: Ah, but you're forgetting about the stress of imprisonment and torture. It could very well have an effect on hair pigmentation. 
(He fetches a jar from the counter.) 
ARCHER: You're sure these are safe? 
PHLOX: Oh, yes. I've treated patients with Regulan bloodworms for years. There should be no side-effects aside from a thoroughly cleansed lymphatic system. Please try not to injure it. They're difficult to replace. 
ARCHER: I'll do my best. 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: What is it? 
ARCHER: Spatial anomalies. We're passing through a field of them. Hold on. 
[Command centre]
(The scene in the shuttle is on a monitor.) 
T'POL: T'Pol to Cargo Bay two. 
[Cargo Bay two]
T'POL [OC]: Increase hydraulics to level six. 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: Is the hull lined with trellium? 
ARCHER: Obviously not. 
[Command centre]
T'POL: Increase to level seven. 
[Cargo Bay two]
T'POL [OC]: On my mark, initiate a sharp jolt to starboard. 
TUCKER: How sharp 
[Command centre]
TUCKER [OC]: do you want it? 
T'POL: Sharp. 
[Cargo Bay two]
TUCKER: You heard the lady. 
[Command centre]
T'POL: Let the Captain know. 
HOSHI: This is going to be a rough one, sir. 
[Shuttle]
(It is, and Degra falls over while Archer nearly falls out of his seat.) 
ARCHER: We're losing structural integrity. I'm taking us out of warp. We'll never make it through this field in one piece. 
DEGRA: Can we go around? 
ARCHER: We don't have enough fuel. We should send a distress call. One of your ships might be close enough to hear it. 
DEGRA: What if the insectoids pick it up? 
ARCHER: We don't have a lot of choices. 
DEGRA: There's a comm. channel used by high-ranking primate officials. I doubt the insectoids know it. 
ARCHER: What's the frequency? 
DEGRA: It would be easier for me to enter it directly. 
(Archer transfers communications to another panel, and lets Degra be secretive about his frequency.) 
[Command centre]
T'POL: Ensign? 
HOSHI: I've got it. 
T'POL: Stand by to respond. 
REED [OC]: Bridge to Command centre. 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
[Bridge]
REED: I'm picking up a distortion in subspace. I believe it's a Xindi ship. 
[Command centre]
T'POL: How long until they arrive? 
[Bridge]
REED: About six hours. 
[Command centre]
HOSHI: Their sensors are pretty sophisticated. They might see us long before then. 
T'POL: Lieutenant, take us back into the debris field. 
REED [OC]: The radiation could overload our systems again. 
T'POL: I'm aware of the risks. Carry out my orders. 
REED [OC]: Acknowledged. 
[Shuttle]
ARCHER: One of the inmates told me all about Maarek Three. He used it as a staging area when he was smuggling dilithium. 
(Degra shares the Andorian ale.) 
DEGRA: What did he say it was like? 
ARCHER: Beautiful, with beaches that go on for thousands of kilometres. First thing I'm going to do is find a cold lake and take the longest bath of my life. 
[Command centre]
ARCHER [on monitor]: It sounded a lot like Earth, the way he described it. 
HOSHI: The Captain's certainly drinking a lot. 
T'POL: The Doctor gave him an anti-intoxicant. 
ARCHER [on monitor]: This colony of yours, you never told me about it. 
DEGRA [on monitor]: It was bleak, desolate. 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: The planet was barely habitable. 
ARCHER: Why'd you live there? 
DEGRA: It wasn't by choice. Naara was desperate to leave, she didn't think a military habitat was the right environment for the children. Do you have a family, Captain? 
ARCHER: It's been a long time since anyone called me Captain. It's Jonathan, remember? I never really had an opportunity to start one. I was away from home a lot. 
DEGRA: You should make the time. I've learned that our work, in the end, means very little. Our real legacy is the children. I would do anything to protect mine. After I was told of the threat from humanity I left my theoretical studies and agreed to design the prototype weapon. When it arrived in your star system, I watched the incoming telemetry with the other members of the Council. Seven million lives were extinguished in front of my eyes. I asked myself how many of those were children. I suppose I've told you this before. 
ARCHER: Actually, you haven't. 
DEGRA: Three years. My children may not even recognise me after so much. 
ARCHER: We're being hailed. Whoever it is, they must be pretty far away. I'll try to clear it up. 
THALEN [OC]: Transmission. This is Thalen responding to your distress call. Please acknowledge. 
DEGRA: It's one of my colleagues. 
(He opens a channel.) 
DEGRA: Thalen, can you hear me? It's Degra. 
THALEN [OC]: Degra? It's good to hear your voice. I'd heard from my sources 
[Command centre]
HOSHI: That you'd been captured by the insectoids. There were reports that you had been executed.
DEGRA [OC]: They haven't killed me yet. I need your help. My friend and I 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: Have escaped from an Insectoid prison. Their patrols are looking for us. 
THALEN [OC]: I'm losing your signal. Please repeat. 
ARCHER: Better make it fast. 
DEGRA: Thalen, where are you? 
THALEN [OC]: I'm on Azati Prime. It's safe here. 
DEGRA: Is my family still there, are they safe? Thalen! 
THALEN [OC]: Naara is here, and the children. I'll tell them to expect you. 
(Fades into gibberish.)
ARCHER: At least you know they're all right. 
DEGRA: There were more than a thousand primates and arboreals at that colony. I don't understand why it wasn't destroyed. 
[Command centre]
ARCHER [on monitor]: We should still change course. Do you know the coordinates? What's wrong? 
DEGRA: You must forgive me. To me, it's been only a day since we were enemies. Giving you the coordinates to a classified installation is difficult. 
ARCHER: Be my guest. 
[Command centre]
HOSHI: They're coming in. One one two seven point four by four zero five two by three nine zero one point one. 
T'POL: A red giant. Open a comm. line to the Captain. 
ARCHER [on monitor]: You encrypted the navigation controls. 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: Yes. 
T'POL [OC]: Captain, the coordinates match the location of one of the red giants. 
ARCHER: Do you mind if I ask how long it will take to get there? 
DEGRA: Not long. 
T'POL [OC]: Approximately three weeks at maximum warp. 
[Command centre]
T'POL: A considerable detour if the weapon isn't there. 
(Archer taps a control, and the words Stand By come up on the main monito.r) 
[Shuttle]
ARCHER: What will your people think when you show up with me. Humans probably aren't their favourite species. 
DEGRA: I'll tell them everything you did to help me. I'm a senior official. There won't be any problems. 
ARCHER: I appreciate that. 
DEGRA: It's a diverse community. Far more pleasant than most military 
(The ship rattles.) 
[Cargo Bay two]
TUCKER: Travis? 
TRAVIS: The port hydraulics are acting up. 
TUCKER: Shut them down. 
TRAVIS: They're not responding. 
T'POL [OC]: T'Pol to Cargo Bay two. Report. 
TUCKER: The radiation from the debris is 
[Command centre]
TUCKER [OC]: Overloading the hydraulic system. 
T'POL: Can you stabilise the simulator? 
TUCKER [OC]: I'm working on it. 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: More anomalies? 
ARCHER: I'm not sure. 
[Command centre]
T'POL: Captain, we're having some problems. Stand by. T'Pol to the Bridge. Take us out of the debris field. 
REED [OC]: Understood. 
(Degra sees something out of the porthole.) 
REED [OC]: Bridge to the Command centre. We're clear of the debris field. 
T'POL: Acknowledged. 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: What was the problem? 
ARCHER: Subspace turbulence. 
DEGRA: Really. I'm curious, Jonathan. If we've been friends for as long as you say, I must have told you the names of my children. 
[Command centre]
ARCHER [on monitor]: You still don't believe me, do you. 
HOSHI: There's something in his hand. 
DEGRA [on monitor]: I'm sure I would have told you 
T'POL: Magnify. 
ARCHER [on monitor]: It's been years since you've said anything. 
T'POL: Captain, he has a weapon. 
[Shuttle]
DEGRA: I just need you to tell me. 
[Command centre]
DEGRA [on monitor]: What their names are. 
T'POL: We're coming in. 
ARCHER [on monitor]: This isn't necessary. 
HOSHI: Piral and Jaina. 
[Shuttle]
ARCHER: Piral and Jaina. 
DEGRA: Which one is older. 
[Command centre]
HOSHI: It's not in here, sir. 
[Shuttle]
(They fight, Archer gets cut but overpowers Degra just as Tucker, Travis and the MACO burst in.)
DEGRA: You'll never find the weapon. 
ARCHER: Take him to the Brig. 
[Brig]
DEGRA: We were told humans were ruthless, but I didn't know you were also skilled at deception. 
(Archer is cleaned up and back in uniform.) 
ARCHER: When did you realise. 
DEGRA: I had my suspicions from the beginning, but it was the comm. signal from my colleague on Azati Prime that confirmed them. 
ARCHER: We know your ship has been there, recently. 
DEGRA: There's an Insectoid deuterium facility on Azati Prime. That's the last place my people would have gone to hide from them. If it weren't for that one mistake, your plan might have succeeded. 
ARCHER: You gave us the coordinates of a red giant. 
DEGRA: I gave you what you thought you wanted. 
ARCHER: I guess I'll just have to wipe your memory clean again, go back into the simulator and start this whole thing over. 
DEGRA: I doubt there's time for that. We both know my people are searching for me. 
ARCHER: I think you didn't figure it out until after the malfunction. I'd be willing to bet those co-ordinates are real. 
DEGRA: Then I suggest you proceed there at maximum warp. 
[Command centre]
HOSHI: Why would he encrypt the coordinates if they weren't accurate? 
T'POL: Perhaps he thought it would make them appear more convincing.
TUCKER: He's got to be lying, sir. Something must have happened during the radiation surge that tipped him off. 
ARCHER: We can't afford to lose three weeks if the weapon isn't there. Have you learned anything more about how they open the subspace vortices? 
TUCKER: They use some kind of phase deflector pulses. Once they're in, their ships can travel half a dozen light years in a couple of minutes. 
ARCHER: I want to see all the data you've collected. 
[Engineering]
ARCHER: Archer to the Bridge. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: We're ready. 
T'POL: Tactical alert. Engage. 
(Everything starts to shake.) 
[Brig]
REED: Open it. 
SECURITY: Sir. 
REED: You two, come with me. I said move! 
(He drags Degra and Thalen out.) 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: We'll fracture the hull if this goes on any longer. 
(Reed comes in with his two prisoners.) 
T'POL [OC]: Hull breaches on decks D and E. 
ARCHER: Emergency bulkheads! You're the engineer? 
THALEN: Yes. 
ARCHER: You're going to help us. We adapted your technology, used our main deflector to open a subspace vortex. 
DEGRA: That's impossible. 
TUCKER: The vortex is starting to collapse. I need you to stabilise it. 
ARCHER: If you don't do what he says, this ship will break apart. Lieutenant. 
(Archer takes the phase pistol off Reed and holds it to Degra's neck.) 
ARCHER: Tell him to do what he's told. 
DEGRA: Do nothing to help them. 
TUCKER: The pylons are buckling. 
(Flames come shooting up the inter-deck lift.) 
T'POL [OC]: Engineering, we're losing hull integrity. 
(The shaking stops.) 
ARCHER: Trip. 
TUCKER: It wasn't me, Captain. 
(He checks his monitor.) 
TUCKER: I'll be damned. Travis inverted the warp field. It dropped us back into normal space. 
T'POL [OC]: T'Pol to Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
T'POL [OC]: Please report to the Bridge. 
ARCHER: Take him back to the Brig. 
(Thalen is taken off, Degra goes with Archer.) 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Report. 
T'POL: We've reached the coordinates. Ensign, magnify. 
(A red giant sun glowers on the viewscreen.) 
REED: I'm picking up several Xindi vessels. I'm also reading significant quantities of kemocite. 
ARCHER: What's our status? 
REED: Minimal damage. The hull plating's coming back online. 
ARCHER: Arm all weapons. Lay in a course for those kemocite signatures, full impulse. Get him out of here. 
DEGRA: You'll never get close to the weapon! Our defence perimeter will destroy you! 
ARCHER: Show him. 
(The viewscreen switches from red giant to weapons testing asteroid.) 
ARCHER: Thanks for your help. Take him to Sickbay. 
(A MACO takes Degra out.) 
ARCHER: I think you overdid the turbulence just a little, Ensign. 
TRAVIS: I'll try to do better next time, sir. 
[Degra's ship]
(The unconscious crew are being placed in their seats.) 
ARCHER: How's it coming? 
T'POL: We've made it appear as if a plasma conduit ruptured, rendering them unconscious. 
PHLOX: I'm injecting them with trace amounts of the plasma. It won't be harmful. 
T'POL: This accident won't explain how their computer core was deleted. 
ARCHER: As long as they don't know we were here, we can leave them with a mystery. (into communicator) Go ahead. 
REED [OC]: The Xindi vessel's less than an hour away, sir. 
Captain's starlog, supplemental. Hopefully the journey to Azati Prime will be the final leg in our search for the Xindi weapon. 

