Episode Number: 80
The Enterprise Transcripts - Borderland
Borderland
Mission date: May 17, 2154
Original Airdate: 29 Oct, 2004
[Klingon Bridge]
OFFICER: A transport shuttle, no armaments. 
SOLDIER: Their engines are down. Life support failing. 
CAPTAIN: Crew? 
SOLDIER: Two biosigns, human. 
CAPTAIN: Tractor beam. Send a squad to the docking port. 
(The little ship is grabbed.) 
[Klingon Corridor]
(Two young men are being escorted by a group of big, armed Klingons, when they stop and look at each other.) 
SOLDIER: Move! Walk, human! 
(The pair take on the Klingons, easily throwing them along the corridor, and knocking them out.) 
[Klingon Bridge]
CAPTAIN: Contact the High Council. Inform them of the prisoners. Request instructions. 
OFFICER: Commander, disruptor fire near the brig. 
(The door opens, and the two young men raise their weapons.) 
CAPTAIN: QI'yaH! 
(The scene ends in a flash of disrupter fire.) 
[Starfleet HQ - Brig]
(The cell has plenty of A4 paper with writing on, neatly arranged on the walls, and in huge piles on the floor. A familiar looking man in overalls is sitting at a table, writing. In this incarnation, he has pink skin and silver hair, not a pale face and dark hair.) 
VOICE [OC]: You have a visitor. 
SOONG: I'm busy. 
VOICE [OC}: Stand up, Doctor. 
(Muttering under his breath, he puts down his pencil and does so.) 
VOICE [OC]: Arms. 
(The metal devices on his wrists lock themselves together to form a chunky pair of handcuffs. The door opens.) 
SOONG: Jonathan Archer. What brings you here? They're naming the prison after you? 
ARCHER: I need to ask you some questions. 
SOONG: I'm kind of in the middle of something. 
ARCHER: It won't take long. 
SOONG: Well. I suppose it's not every day one gets to speak to the man who saved the planet. Please. (Archer steps into the cell) I apologise for the clutter. I'm not allowed traditional recording devices. 
(The guard closes the door and steps out of sight.) 
ARCHER: You programmed a PADD to unlock every security door in the building. 
SOONG: I was particularly proud of that. I made it all the way to Sausalito. On the rare occasion I get stuck on a problem, I find a vigorous escape attempt helps to clear the head. (Archer looks at a paper) Go ahead. They're DNA sequences. That one is for a modification of the human T-cell. It would render Sharat Syndrome a thing of the past. That one increases the visual spectrum by five percent. Of course, none of this will ever be tested. They clear out my room every few months. I'm told it all gets vaporised. 
ARCHER: Why invest so much time and energy on things no one will ever use? 
SOONG: How can a supposedly intelligent species reject technology that would enhance ability, relieve suffering? 
ARCHER: Genetic engineering has caused a lot of suffering. 
SOONG: So did splitting the atom, yet the first ships to colonise the solar system were nuclear-powered. But you're not here to discuss that. 
ARCHER: Someone attacked a Klingon Bird of Prey. The entire crew was massacred. The ship is missing. 
SOONG: I read the reports. I understand the Klingons are quite annoyed. Looks like you might've saved Earth for nothing. 
ARCHER: Whoever's responsible jettisoned the Klingon crew into space. DNA was recovered from the bodies. 
SOONG: Let me guess. Human? 
ARCHER: Not quite. 
SOONG: I see. 
ARCHER: They were Augments. Their genetically-enhanced DNA matched embryos stolen from a medical facility over twenty years ago. Stolen by you. 
[Bridge]
(Enterprise is still in Spacedock, and the senior staff are in casual clothes.) 
ARCHER: Soong used to work at Cold Station 12, a top secret medical research station. 
REED: Isn't that where Starfleet keeps a stockpile of infectious diseases? 
ARCHER: Along with genetically-engineered embryos left over from the Eugenics Wars. It's been kept from the public for obvious reasons. 
TRAVIS: I remember Soong's trial. He wouldn't say what he did with the embryos he stole. 
ARCHER: Now he now claims that he took them to a planet in the Trialus System and raised them. They were around ten years old when he was captured, a decade ago. 
TUCKER: So there could be a bunch of Augments from the Eugenics Wars running around loose. 
TRAVIS: Not a pretty thought. 
REED: What would they want with a Klingon Bird of Prey? 
ARCHER: We don't know. Neither does Soong. At least he claims he doesn't. But he does think he can convince them to surrender without a fight. 
REED: You're bringing him along. 
ARCHER: There's also the fact that he spent time in the Borderland. 
HOSHI: The Borderland? 
REED: The area where the Klingon ship was attacked. 
T'POL: It's a volatile region between the Klingon Empire and the Orion Syndicate. It attracts the most dangerous elements from both. 
HOSHI: Sorry I asked. 
ARCHER: The Klingons have threatened to retaliate with everything they've got. We're the fastest ship and the most experienced crew. We have to find the Augments and bring them back. It's the only way to avert a war. We launch in six hours. 
[Klingon Bridge]
PERSIS: (a brunette) We've mastered their engine controls. 
MALIK: (one of the young men who captured the ship) Wing-mounted disruptor cannons, photon torpedo launchers. This ship's an arsenal. 
PERSIS: We're finally free. 
RAAKIN: A fine ship. 
(Suddenly he hits Malik.) 
MALIK: I thought you'd be pleased. 
RAAKIN: I didn't sanction this attack. If you'd failed, they would've come after all of us. 
MALIK: I didn't fail. 
RAAKIN: Their government knows what we did. They have ships hunting for us right now. 
MALIK: They won't find us. It was time for us to leave this godforsaken planet. 
RAAKIN: That was my decision, not yours! You've forgotten who I am? Have you?! 
MALIK: No, Raakin. 
RAAKIN: Say it. 
MALIK: You are our leader. 
RAAKIN: (taking Persis' hand) Don't ever make me ask you again. Notify me when the rest of our supplies are onboard. We're leaving orbit. 
[Docking port]
(Enterprise is still in Spacedock. Soong is 
handcuffed and escorted by three MACOs.) 
SOONG: Permission to come aboard, sir? 
ARCHER: This is my Science Officer, T'Pol. 
SOONG: No need for an introduction. I admire your people very much. We share a similar view of humanity. 
T'POL: What view is that? 
SOONG: That it could stand some improvement. 
T'POL: I believe that's true of most species, if not all. 
ARCHER: My Tactical Officer, Lieutenant Reed. 
REED: Doctor. 
SOONG: I've heard of you, but I don't recognise your face. You're not getting your fair share of publicity. 
REED: I think I've had all I can stand. 
ARCHER: We've prepared some quarters. You'll be under guard at all times. If you should decide you need to clear your head. 
SOONG: We're on a starship soon to be at high warp. Where exactly would I go? 
ARCHER: It's this way. 
(The group head off down a corridor.) 
SOONG: If I could examine the DNA samples the Klingons recovered, I could tell you something about the current state of the Augments. 
ARCHER: I'll have the information sent to your quarters. 
SOONG: A laboratory would be preferable, your Sickbay. Doctor Phlox's reputation rivals my own, before I was imprisoned, of course. I'd enjoy trading notes with him. 
ARCHER: I'll consider it. 
[Bridge]
(Tucker is putting the finishing touches to the new Captain's chair when T'Pol brings him a PADD.) 
TUCKER: So, how was the honeymoon? 
T'POL: Honeymoon? 
TUCKER: You were on Vulcan another two weeks after I left. I figured 
(Archer enters.) 
TUCKER: It comes with everything but its own protein resequencer. For that, I'll need another day. 
ARCHER: I like it. 
TUCKER: We don't have time to go over all the details. Just try not to hit that button. 
HOSHI: We're cleared for launch. 
ARCHER: Here we are again. 
(He looks around at his senior staff.) 
ARCHER: Wouldn't have it any other way. Travis. 
(Umbilicals are released, the engines glow blue, and NX01 Enterprise glides out of her cradle - and zaps straight to warp.) 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: I just received an intelligence report. A Klingon warship was spotted near Proxima colony. Admiral Forrest thinks they could be conducting reconnaissance for a future strike. I wanted to keep you up to date. 
T'POL: My government is trying to work out a diplomatic solution. There's still a chance they'll be successful. 
ARCHER: Small chance. One other thing. 
(He picks up a wooden, brass-bound box from his desk.) 
ARCHER: It's your first official day of duty, Commander T'Pol. A present. It's from the early twentieth century. Should help keep you pointed in the right direction. 
(It's a ship's compass.) 
ARCHER: I'm glad you're with us. 
T'POL: Thank you, Captain. 
Captain's Starlog, May 17, 2154. We've crossed into the Borderland, three light years from where the Klingons were attacked. Still no sign of their ship. 
[Sickbay]
(The DNA strands are displayed on the overhead screen. 
Soon is no longer in handcuffs, but still under guard.) 
SOONG: Malik. He was the rebellious one. Reminded me of myself when I was his age. I came to think of them as my own children. 
PHLOX: It must've been difficult for you to leave them behind. 
SOONG: I knew they'd survive. 
PHLOX: This is extremely sophisticated work for twentieth century Earth. 
SOONG: Well, I made some modifications of my own. 
PHLOX: Really? What kind of modifications? 
SOONG: I prefer to let my work speak for itself. 
PHLOX: I think it already has. 
SOONG: I didn't realise you shared humanity's reactionary attitude toward this field of medicine. 
PHLOX: On the contrary, we've used genetic engineering on Denobula for over two centuries, to generally positive effect. 
SOONG: But you don't approve of what I've done. 
PHLOX: You tried to redesign your species. The first time that was attempted on Earth, the result was thirty million deaths. 
SOONG: We can't let past mistakes hold us back. 
PHLOX: It's your responsibility as a scientist to learn from past mistakes. 
SOONG: Well, what makes you think I haven't? 
PHLOX: I can read. 
[Bridge]
(Enterprise shakes from an impact.) 
REED: Two vessels are coming up behind us. 
T'POL: Orion Interceptors. 
ARCHER: Interesting way of saying hello. Hoshi? 
HOSHI: No response. 
(Another thud. The ships drop out of warp for the shooting match.) 
[Engineering]
(Things are going bang all over the place.) 
TUCKER: We're getting hammered down here! 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Keep firing. 
T'POL: I'm picking up an energy surge from one of the interceptors. 
ARCHER: A weapon? 
T'POL: No. 
(Then she gets beamed away.) 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: Tucker to the Bridge. Two of my people just disappeared. 
[Bridge]
REED: The interceptors have jumped to warp. They're gone. 
[Soong's quarters]
ARCHER: They took nine people, including T'Pol. 
SOONG: There never used to be Orions in this area. They must've expanded their range of operations. It's a shame. I really liked your Science Officer. 
ARCHER: How do I get them back? 
SOONG: It's not going to be easy. 
ARCHER: That's not what I asked you. 
SOONG: They've most likely been taken to a processing station. The nearest one's on Verex Three. 
ARCHER: (into communicator) Archer to Bridge. 
REED [OC]: Reed. 
ARCHER: Set a course for Verex Three, best possible speed. 
REED [OC]: Yes, sir. 
ARCHER: What'll happen to them there? 
SOONG: They'll be ushered into their new profession, as slaves. These stations are heavily guarded. Only legitimate traders are permitted to enter. 
ARCHER: I have the feeling you've found your way in. 
SOONG: I had to establish a relationship with the Orions. They helped me acquire certain goods and equipment I needed to survive. I can get you inside, but I can't get your people out. 
ARCHER: One step at a time. 
[Klingon ship - corridor]
MALIK: Raakin is taking us to another system where we can live out our lives in peace. But I'm sure he's already told you that. 
PERSIS: He doesn't tell me everything. 
MALIK: This isn't what our father would've wanted. He didn't raise us to run away and hide. 
PERSIS: Well, what do you propose? 
MALIK: You could try to convince Raakin to reconsider. 
PERSIS: He only wants one thing from me, and it isn't advice. 
MALIK: It doesn't suit you. 
PERSIS: What? 
MALIK: Playing the victim. You chose Raakin. You wanted the strongest for yourself. 
PERSIS: I still do. What is it you want? 
{he grabs her, and kisses her, then she pushes him up against a bulkhead) 
PERSIS: There's plenty of time for that. 
[Orion Slave Market]
(T'Pol has a device fitted to her neck. When the big green man activates it, she leaps up in pain.) 
SLAVER: You are now the property of the Orion Syndicate. Break the rules, and you will suffer. Follow the rules, and you will suffer less. Take her. 
(She is thrown into one of a number of cages filled with people of assorted races. There is a young man in a Starfleet uniform cowering in the corner.) 
T'POL: Ensign. 
PIERCE: Commander! 
T'POL: Are you all right? 
PIERCE: This thing, it hurts. 
T'POL: Don't touch it. Have you seen anyone else from the ship? 
PIERCE: Just you. Where are we? 
T'POL: An Orion slave market. 
PIERCE: Slave market? 
T'POL: The Orions traffic in forced labour. We're being processed for auction. 
PIERCE: This can't be happening. They're going to come for us, right? The ship? 
T'POL: Ensign. 
PIERCE: The Captain's going to get us out of here! 
T'POL: Ensign. I don't know your name. 
PIERCE: Pierce. Jeffrey Pierce. I just signed on. 
T'POL: Jeffrey, Enterprise will come. It may take some time. We should try to stay together until they get here. 
[Bridge]
(Enterprise is orbiting a planet, along with a lot of smaller craft.) 
ALIEN [OC]: Transmit your identification code. 
REED: Soong hasn't used this code in years. 
ARCHER: Give it time. 
ALIEN [OC]: You're cleared to proceed. 
[Transporter alcove]
(Archer arrives in casual clothes with Soong and his shadows, and meets Phlox, who injects Soong with something.) 
ARCHER: Phlox. Transponder. It has a range of ten kilometres.
TUCKER: You wander off more than a step or two, we bring you right back here. 
SOONG: You don't like me, do you, Commander Tucker? 
TUCKER: No, I don't. 
SOONG: You probably blame me for what's happened to your Vulcan friend. 
ARCHER: That's enough. 
SOONG: Your crew could use a sense of humour. 
ARCHER: Make the engines a priority. When it's time to leave, I have a feeling we're going to need all the speed we can get. 
(Tucker beams Archer and Soong down to -) 
[Orion Slave Market]
PIERCE: I've read every transcript of every mission. I thought I was prepared, that I knew what to expect. Boy, was I wrong. 
T'POL: If you wish, I can teach you how to minimise your anxiety. 
PIERCE: Yeah, I'd like that. I'd like that a lot. 
(But the big green giant comes in and hauls her away.) 
PIERCE: Leave her alone! 
T'POL: Ensign, don't! 
(Pierce gets a punishment zap.;T'Pol is taken up to an auction block, where the green giant effortlessly lifts her up to let the buyers have a better look. The bidding starts, electronically. We see Tellarites in the crowd.) 
SLAVER: You're doing well. 
(When the bidding ends, he rejoices.) 
SLAVER: Three million six! Not even my last wife sold for that much. 
(By the slave cages, Archer and Soong are scanning for human biosigns.) 
ORION: Stand up. Bring that woman. 
ARCHER: Over here. 
(A dark-haired woman stands, but Archer gestures and she quietly sits down again.) 
SOONG: At least we know four of your people are still here. Doesn't seem to be much demand for humans. 
ARCHER: Those devices on their necks. 
SOONG: Neurolytic restraints. Ingenious, really. They induce convulsive seizures in disobedient slaves. If a slave attempts to leave the premises. 
ARCHER: So if we try to beam them out? 
SOONG: Wouldn't recommend it, not if you want them alive. 
(They've found their way to the auction block, where an Orion woman is presenting herself for sale, unabashed.) 
ARCHER: They sell their own people? 
SOONG: Only the women. Orion females are known for their extreme appetites, their innate skills.
ARCHER: Come on. 
(They head off to the cages of sold slaves.) 
ARCHER: T'Pol. You all right? 
T'POL: How many were taken? 
ARCHER: Nine. We've located five, so far. We're working on a way to try and 
ORION: She's sold. Buyers are over there. 
SOONG: We made a wrong turn. Thank you so much, though. Thank you for your help. Really, thank you. Let's go. 
[Klingon ship]
(The alpha male and his woman are marching through the ship.) 
RAAKIN: He argues with every command I give, defies me in front of the others. 
PERSIS: Some of them agree with what he did, taking this ship. 
RAAKIN: They've forgotten how we've stayed alive all these years. My resolve was what kept us from starving to death on that rock. 
PERSIS: They believe it's Malik who liberated us from that rock. 
RAAKIN: You agree with them. 
PERSIS: How can you say that? 
RAAKIN: I hear it in your voice. 
[Raakin's quarters]
PERSIS: Malik's doing more than arguing with your commands. He's plotting against you. He wants to take your place. 
RAAKIN: How do you know that? 
PERSIS: He told me. Malik's always wanted me. I knew he was planning something, so I let him think I wanted him as well. He said that you're weak, that you're making all of us weak, that you're betraying Father's principles, that if Father were here, he'd choose Malik to lead us. 
RAAKIN: I will betray Father's principles. I'm going to kill my own brother. 
[Orion Slave Market]
(The slaver hauls Pierce out of the cell and onto the auction block.) 
SLAVER: If you don't sell as a slave, I will sell you as food. 
(But there's not a lot of interest, and there aren't many symbols on the price board behind him. The Slaver;
pushes him down the steps again.)
SLAVER: Oh, that's barely enough to cover the expense of processing you. 
ARCHER: (into communicator) Archer to Enterprise. 
TUCKER [OC]: Tucker here. 
ARCHER: We've located everyone, including T'Pol. I'm going to need six kilos of tritanium cobalt. 
SOONG: Nine. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: Make that nine. 
TUCKER: That's half our supply. 
[Orion Slave Market]
ARCHER: I'll explain later. Just get it ready. 
TUCKER [OC]: Yes, sir. 
[Sickbay]
[Pierce is on a biobed, restraint in place, as Phlox tries to remove it.) 
ARCHER: They normally remove the restraint after a sale. We used the extra tritanium to bribe one of the guards to deactivate it but leave it on him. 
TUCKER: Why can't we just buy the rest of our people? 
ARCHER: T'Pol's already been sold. We don't have time to try and buy them all. 
PHLOX: We're almost there. Try to hold still. 
TUCKER: What kind of people are these? 
SOONG: I'd say they're not unlike some of your ancestors, judging from your accent. 
TUCKER: Well, if I remember my history, these Augments you love so much had plenty of slaves. 
SOONG: They were more like subjects. 
TUCKER: Oh. They were just treated like slaves. 
(Phlox removes the restraint from Pierce's neck, and Archer hands it to Tucker.) 
ARCHER: T'Pol could be shipped out any second. Work fast. 
[Klingon ship]
(A clandestine meeting is taking place.) 
PERSIS: I told him everything. He thinks you're planning an attack against him. 
MALIK: Is he going to move against me? 
RAAKIN: (with a disruptor rifle) See for yourself. Is this the move you expected? 
(Malik looks at Persis.) 
RAAKIN: It's between us. I saved your life once when we were children, pulled you from the river when you fell in. 
MALIK: I remember. 
RAAKIN: Now, ten years later, you're plotting against me. 
MALIK: I'm the strongest and the smartest. 
RAAKIN: Doesn't look that way from here. You would never have trapped me like this. 
(But the gun doesn't fire when he pulls the trigger.) 
MALIK: But I have. 
(Malik's supporters arrive.) 
PERSIS: I'm sorry, Raakin. 
MALIK: It's between us. 
RAAKIN: Saul, Jaya, listen to me. 
MALIK: They only listen to me now. There was a time when I looked up to you, when I called you my brother. 
RAAKIN: I am your brother. 
MALIK: When you rejected our father's wishes, you stopped being one of us, and when that happened, you ceased to exist. 
(He stabs Raakin in the stomach.) 
MALIK: Which makes this an act of mercy. Get rid of him. 
(Persis is starting to cry.) 
MALIK: Don't. Not for him. 
[Orion Slave Market]
(Just outside the main area.) 
TUCKER [OC]: We're sending the code now. 
ARCHER: Got it. 
(He distracts a guard so Soong can inject him with something. It takes a few sways, but the giant finally topples onto his back. They're seen by someone though, as Soong goes to the control panels and starts working with the code.;In the main market, the Slaver and her Tellarite purchaser comes for T'Pol.) 
SLAVER: Outside. Outside! 
(The alien who spotted them tells another guard, but inside, T'Pol has felt her restraint switch off, so she hits the Tellarite and all the prisoners see the Slaver's control fail to bring her to her knees in agony.) 
PRISONER: The restraints are off! 
(They make a break for it.) 
SLAVER: Slaves are loose! Slaves are loose! 
(The alarms go off, slaves get out of the cages and run for it. Some encounter Orions with pain sticks.) 
ARCHER: Trip, start beaming them, five at a time. 
(Soong knocks him down with an Orion pain stick too.) 
SOONG: Sorry, Captain. I hope you find your people. Thanks for the ride. 
(The Slaver has his hand around T'Pol's neck.) 
SLAVER: You've got spirit. I might just keep you for myself. 
(But she frees herself with a well aimed kick to a sensitive area.) 
T'POL: I'm not for sale. 
(She's beamed away.) 
ARCHER: Trip, have you got everyone? 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: You and Soong are the only ones left. 
ARCHER [OC]: Soong got away. 
[Orion Slave Market]
ARCHER: Locate him and beam him up. 
(Soong uses the Orion pain stick directly against where the transponder was injected.) 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: Soong's transponder signal, it's dead. 
[Orion Slave Market]
ARCHER: Can you scan for his biosign? 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: We're trying, but there's too many people down there. 
[Orion Slave Market]
(Archer climbs up on the auction block for a better view, and spots Soong trying to get away. He gets close enough to him to activate the magnetic handcuffs.) 
ALIEN: Help me. Don't let them take me. 
(Soong runs into what looks like a dead end and tries climbing, so when Archer arrives, he just disengages his handcuffs to make him fall.) 
ARCHER: Trip, two to beam up. 
[Brig]
(Archer is pacing up and down outside, furious.) 
ARCHER: You knew exactly where the Orions were operating. You knew they'd abduct members of my crew. Maybe you were even hoping they'd get you. 
SOONG: There was an outside chance. 
ARCHER: You were determined to escape, no matter who got hurt. 
SOONG: No one was injured. 
ARCHER: Nine of my people were nearly sold into slavery. Two of them may have permanent physical damage because of the restraints. 
SOONG: I didn't take this action lightly. 
ARCHER: Is that supposed to justify what you did? 
SOONG: I'm simply saying it wasn't easy for me to place you and your crew in jeopardy. I respect you, Captain. 
ARCHER: Then tell me how to find the Augments. You know where they're going. 
SOONG: They didn't steal a Klingon ship to go sightseeing.
ARCHER: They're dangerous. 
SOONG: They're the future. They're stronger, smarter, free from sickness, with life spans twice as long as our own. You, more than anyone, should appreciate what this means. 
ARCHER: Why me? 
SOONG: Your father suffered from Clarke's Disease. His final years were marked with extreme pain. 
ARCHER: My father has nothing to do with this. 
SOONG: He didn't need to suffer. Genetic engineering could've cured him. Those who want to suppress my Augments are the same ones who condemned your father to death. Turn the ship around, Captain. Go home. Leave them alone. 
ARCHER: I'm going to find them, Doctor, whether you help me or not. 
[Sickbay]
(A somewhat crowded area, with seven patients lying on beds, and one sitting up reading a PADD.) 
TUCKER: You're supposed to be resting. 
T'POL: Doctor Phlox says I can resume my duties this afternoon. 
TUCKER: I'm glad they got that thing off with no problem. 
T'POL: There's a slight ringing in my left ear, but it should dissipate over time. 
TUCKER: Good. Well, I'll let you get back to that. 
T'POL: Vulcans don't have honeymoons. After the ceremony, I went to Mount Seleya to meditate alone. 
TUCKER: It's none of my business, anyway. 
(Suddenly, the ship is hit and things go bang.) 
[Bridge]
REED: Orion Interceptors, two of them. Coming up fast. 
HOSHI: They're hailing us. 
ARCHER: This is Captain Archer of the Starship 
SLAVER [OC]: You've stolen our property! 
ARCHER: They were members of my crew. You kidnapped them. 
SLAVER [OC]: Disengage your warp drive, and deactivate your weapons. 
ARCHER: That isn't going to happen. (another bang) Malcolm. 
(The ships exchange phaser fire.) 
REED: They're targeting our nacelles. 
TRAVIS: We're dropping out of warp. 
ARCHER: Torpedoes. 
(Reed's console explodes in flames) 
TRAVIS: There's another ship. 
(The Bird of Prey blasts one Interceptor to pieces.) 
REED: The second Orion is veering off. They're retreating. 
HOSHI: The Klingons are requesting to dock. 
[Ready room]
(Reed and a MACO are also present.) 
MALIK: I know he's on this ship. We received his signal. 
ARCHER: When he tried to escape, I saw him access a console. 
MALIK: You were expecting us. Where is he? 
ARCHER: In the Brig. 
MALIK: In a prison cell? I want to speak with him. 
ARCHER: I can't allow that. 
MALIK: We saved your ship. 
ARCHER: My ship wouldn't have been in danger if we hadn't come looking for you. 
MALIK: What is it you want with us? 
ARCHER: My orders are to take you back to Earth. 
MALIK: Earth considers my father a criminal. Why? Because he brought us to life. You want to take us back to a world that opposes our very existence. 
ARCHER: You attacked a Klingon vessel. They're threatening war. 
MALIK: That's not our problem. We don't care what happens to you. Humanity is no longer relevant. To quote one of your philosophers, Nietzsche, mankind is something to be surpassed. 
ARCHER: You think he was talking about you? 
MALIK: I'm about to attack you. 
(Malik grabs Archer, turning him into a human shield before Reed and the MACO can draw their weapons.) 
MALIK: You see? Even with a warning, you're not fast enough. 
REED: Let him go. 
We have five times your strength, double your intelligence. 
REED: Let him go. 
MALIK: I'll tear out his throat. Lower your weapons. Now. 
(They do, and Malik speaks into him communicator.) 
MALIK: Persis. 
[Klingon ship]
PERSIS: I've broken their security code. We're ready.
(The airlock door opens and the MACOs there are quickly overwhelmed by the Augments.) 
[Bridge]
(Malik is still using Archer as a shield.) 
MALIK: I'll kill him. 
(They go into the turbolift.) 
[Brig]
(The three MACO guards are quickly taken out, then the cell doors are simply pushed open.) 
PERSIS: Persis. 
SOONG: Persis? (they embrace) I can't believe it. 
[by the Airlock]
PERSIS: Father, here's Malik. 
SOONG: Malik. 
(Archer gets thrown away against the bulkhead so the pair can embrace.) 
SOONG: I knew we'd see each other again. I'm proud of you. Of all of you. 
ARCHER: Soong, listen to me. 
SOONG: There's nothing to say, Captain. 
MALIK: What should we do with them? 
SOONG: Let them go. 
MALIK: But they'll just come after us. 
SOONG: Their ship's disabled. By the time it's repaired, we'll be far away. It's been a pleasure, Captain. Take my advice. Go home and start learning how to speak Klingon. 
[Klingon Bridge]
(Now at warp, Soong gets to meet the other Augments.) 
SOONG: There were times back on Earth when I doubted myself, my work. But seeing you all, I know that everything I've fought for was worth it. We're going to build a new world. But we can't begin that task just yet. Thousands of your brothers and sisters are waiting to be born. Let's go get them. 
To Be Continued

