Episode Number: 59
The Enterprise Transcripts - The Shipment
The   Shipment
Original Airdate: Oct 29, 2003
[Command centre]
TARQUIN [OC]: Hoshi. 
ARCHER [OC]: Previously on Star Trek Enterprise. 
TARQUIN [OC]: I know you're on an urgent mission. 
HOSHI: Who are you? 
TARQUIN [OC]: Don't be frightened. 
HOSHI: What do you want? 
TARQUIN [OC]: You're searching for something. I can help. 
HOSHI [OC]: He was horrified that seven million of us were killed. He says he's willing to        use his abilities to help us find the Xindi.
HOSHI [Tarquin's study]: What's this? 
TARQUIN: It helps me extend the range of my telepathy. 
HOSHI [Ready room]: He gave me these co-ordinates. 
ARCHER: Where are they for? 
HOSHI: A Xindi colony. He said they're building part of the weapon there.
[Weapon construction area]
DEGRA: We're preparing to test the weapon on an uninhabited planet in the Calindra system,        but we're going to need another shipment of kemocite. At least one hundred kilograms. 
REPTILIAN: I'll contact Gralik. If the test is successful, how long before we can deploy        the weapon? 
DEGRA: A matter of weeks.        
[Command centre]
REED: There are no defensive systems? 
T'POL: No active sensor sweeps or artificial satellites, no vessels anywhere in the        vicinity. 
ARCHER: We've seen how different Xindi technology is. They could have defences we can't detect. 
REED: It's also possible that what we've been told about this colony isn't accurate.        We're putting a lot of faith in Hoshi's telepathic friend. 
(Archer brings up sensor readings of the planet.) 
ARCHER: What about these energy readings?        They could be coming from a weapons complex. 
T'POL: They could also be electrical storms, deposits of diamagnetic ore, or 
ARCHER: Or a glitch in our sensors. I know. But if there's any chance that something on        that planet could lead us to the Xindi weapon, we have to investigate it. After we        enter the system we'll stay on the far side of that moon. It should keep us out of view.        Tell Major Hayes he'll be joining us on a reconnaissance mission. We launch in two hours.        
[Shuttlepod]
ARCHER: Archer to Enterprise. 
T'POL [OC]: Go ahead. 
ARCHER: I've found a landing site twelve kilometres north of the energy readings. Any        sign they've detected us? 
T'POL [OC]: Scans are still negative. Your signal's breaking up. 
ARCHER: I've set a steep approach vector and we've ionised the hull. It'll help        disburse any scanning beams. 
T'POL: Acknowledged. 
REED: If anyone sees us, they'll think we're a meteor.       
[Forest]
ARCHER: How much further? 
REED: Eight hundred metres, just over that rise. 
(A little farther on.) 
REED: That's definitely the source of the        energy readings.
(Archer looks through his binoculars.) 
ARCHER: They're Xindi. 
HAYES: Reptilian? 
ARCHER: No, one of the other species we saw on the database.       
[Bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: We've picked up readings across the spectrum. Positron emissions, antiproton        bursts. Whatever they're doing in there, it's using a lot of power. 
T'POL: Corporal Hawkins is standing by with an assault team. 
ARCHER [OC]: Tell him to keep standing by. I'm not ready to send in the troops        just yet. We've checked out the perimeter of the complex. I think we can get inside        without being detected.        
[Forest]
ARCHER: We'll maintain communications silence inside the complex. I'll contact        you at oh four hundred. Archer out.        
[Security fence]
REED: I'm not picking up any security devices. 
ARCHER: What about people? 
REED: Approximately eighty inside the complex, but not within a hundred metres. 
(Archer uses his phaser to cut through the metal grill.)       
[Refinery Storage room]
(One window looks out over a massive industrial area. Reed;
scans some canisters.) 
REED: Captain. Some kind of radiolytic compound. It doesn't match anything in        our database. There's several hundred kilograms n this room. 
(A door opens, and the three hide.)
GRALIK: There were impurities in the last three production cycles. 
SLOTH 2: We found a ruptured seal in the tertiary processing chamber. It's been repaired. 
GRALIK: We'll have to increase the production rate by at least sixty percent. Assign two additional teams. 
SLOTH 3: Degra isn't being realistic. This facility wasn't designed to manufacture such large quantities. 
GRALIK: Your job is to synthesis kemocite. I suggest you get back to it. Have these canisters retested.        Salvage what you can, then destroy the rest. 
(The two assistants leave, then Gralik notices the empty space and the canister Reed left on a table. He looks around        warily, then puts it back in the box and leaves.)       
[Transporter alcove]
(One of the canisters is beamed aboard.)
T'POL: We have it, Captain. 
ARCHER [OC]: I need an analysis as soon as possible. 
T'POL: Acknowledged.       
[Forest]
REED: Captain, this place obviously has something to do with the weapon. It seems to me the        sooner we put it out of commission, the better. 
HAYES: Two spatial charges. That's all it would take to destroy the complex from orbit. 
ARCHER: That might set them back for a while, but we can't lose sight of our main objective.        I want to know where they're shipping this kemocite. It could lead us to the weapon.        
[Gralik's home]
(He's walked home from the lab, with a gentle rolling gait, and poured himself a drink when the three come in.)
ARCHER: I have some questions for you. 
GRALIK: Who are you? What do you want from me? 
(Archer points his phaser at Gralik.) 
ARCHER: Sit down! 
REED: There's nobody else here, sir. Apparently he lives alone. 
ARCHER: Take watch outside. 
(Reed and Hayes leave.) 
ARCHER: 
What's your name? 
GRALIK: Gralik Durr. 
ARCHER: My name's Jonathan Archer. I'm from Earth. 
GRALIK: Is that supposed to explain why you forced your way into my home? 
ARCHER: Tell me about kemocite. 
GRALIK: It's a multiphasic isotope. 
ARCHER: Used for what? 
GRALIK: There are numerous applications. It depends on the level of refinement. 
ARCHER: You're working with someone named Degra. Who is he? 
GRALIK: That's none of your concern. 
(Archer closes the door.) 
ARCHER: What's he using it for? 
GRALIK: Kemocite can be used for any number of purposes. I don't make a habit        of asking our clients what they plan to do with it. 
ARCHER: Maybe you should, because this batch is being used to create a weapon to exterminate my people! 
GRALIK: What? 
ARCHER: I want to know where the weapon is being build and when it's going to be ready. 
GRALIK: I don't know what you're talking about. 
ARCHER: I'm not leaving here until I get the answers I need.       
[Science lab]
T'POL: I managed to identify a sub-quantum imprint. It matches the signature of        the Xindi probe. 
TUCKER: There's no doubt about it, Captain. This isotope was used in the weapon        that attacked Earth.        
[Outside Gralik's home]
T'POL [OC]: Have you learnt anything from the interrogation? 
ARCHER: Not yet, but this should help. 
TUCKER [OC]: Something else, Captain.       
[Science lab]
TUCKER: I ran a scan on that rifle we picked up. There it was again, the same        quantum imprint. I'd like permission to take it apart.       
[Outside Gralik's home]
ARCHER: Go ahead. We'll contact you in a couple of hours. 
T'POL [OC]: Understood. 
REED: Congratulations, sir. Three months ago we entered the Expanse with no        idea who these Xindi were or how to find them, and now we're about to destroy        one of their weapons facilities. 
ARCHER: I thought we were here to try and stop a war, not start one. 
REED: They struck first. 
ARCHER: Because they were told we're going to attack them. They think they're        acting in self-defence. By destroying this complex we'll be confirming their        worst fears about humanity. 
REED: Let's not forget the seven million people who were killed. 
ARCHER: Have Major Hayes lay down blast suppressors. When this facility goes,        I don't want to take the rest of the settlement with it. 
REED: What about Gralik, sir? He'll tell them about Enterprise. 
ARCHER: I'll deal with Gralik when the time comes. I don't intend to let        anyone know we were here.        
[Transporter alcove]
TUCKER: I can't imagine what the Captain wants this for. 
T'POL: He was quite insistent. 
TUCKER: We ran the quantum analysis three times. Doesn't he trust us? 
T'POL: He said he needed it to help prove a point. 
(beams a case down)       
[Gralik's home]
GRALIK: How long are you going to keep me here? 
HAYES: That's up to Captain Archer. 
GRALIK: Well, you can tell him that I'll be in my study. 
HAYES: I'm afraid you're going to have to stay right here. 
GRALIK: I have work to do. 
HAYES: And I'm under orders. Please sit down. 
GRALIK: I've already told you everything I know. 
(The door opens.) 
GRALIK: Ah, Captain Archer. I        was beginning to think you'd forgotten about me. 
(Hayes leaves.) 
ARCHER: You said you weren't involved in building weapons. 
GRALIK: That's correct. 
ARCHER: Explain this. 
GRALIK: I don't know what this is. 
ARCHER: It's a fragment of a probe that murdered seven million people.        The dead pilot was Xindi, the alloy is Xindi, and it's imprinted with the        quantum signature of the compound you produce here. We know you're constructing        a larger version of the weapon, big enough to destroy a planet. I want to know        where it's being built! 
GRALIK: You burst into my home, show me some twisted piece of metal and tell me        it proves I'm a mass murderer? I've never seen your species before. I've never        heard of a planet called Earth, and whether you believe me or not, I had        nothing to do with killing millions of its inhabitants.       
[Armoury]
PHLOX: I'm flattered you requested my assistance, Commander, but weaponry isn't        exactly my area of expertise. 
TUCKER: My scans of this thing showed organic components, and I figured anything        biological is more your turf than mine. 
(Tucker opens the top of the rifle to reveal two maggot things.) 
TUCKER: What do you think? 
PHLOX: They appear to be generating synaptic impulses. 
(Tucker takes one out with tongs.) 
TUCKER: Is it alive? 
PHLOX: Wouldn't make a very good pet but, definitely organic. 
(Another worm emerges to        replace the one Tucker removed from the weapon.) 
PHLOX: And it appears to have reproductive        capabilities.        
[Gralik's home]
(Gralik is examining the weapon fragment.)
GRALIK: The kemocite is extremely refined. 
ARCHER: Did it come from this facility? 
GRALIK: It did. We supply many species with kemocite, not just Xindi.        It has countless applications. When Degra requested shipments so        highly refined, we celebrated, realising the wealth it would bring        to our colony. We never considered why he wanted such pure kemocite.        Perhaps our greed blinded us from the possibility that it would be used in constructing a weapon. 
ARCHER: Is Degra a reptilian? 
GRALIK: No, he's a Xindi Primate. 
ARCHER: I met one at a mining complex. 
GRALIK: They're similar to you. Ape-like. Degra and his people have        always been fair, truthful. That may have been why I believed him when        he said the shipment was for research. Perhaps he's become as untrustworthy        as the reptilians. 
ARCHER: We've run into a few of them, too. It's hard to imagine five sentient        species evolving on the same planet. 
GRALIK: Five? I suppose there are, now. 
(Gralik offers Archer a drink) 
ARCHER: No, thanks. 
GRALIK: Do you mind? 
ARCHER: No, go ahead. 
(Gralik takes a drink.) 
GRALIK: There was a sixth species, the avians. They've been gone since the war. 
ARCHER: Gone? 
GRALIK: Extinct. As far as I'm told, none of them fled before our homeworld was destroyed. 
ARCHER: We found some debris. How did it happen? 
GRALIK: The war went on for nearly a hundred years. The sides changed, alliances were        forged and then broken. By the time it ended I doubt any of the six species remembered        what started it, but everyone remembered what ended it. As well as being unstable politically,        our planet was even more unstable geologically. In a final desperate act, the insectoids and        reptilians detonated massive explosions beneath the eight largest seismic fissures. I'd like        to think they didn't realise how devastating the result would be. My grandfather lived there.        He told me of places where the sky was sometimes filled with avians. Now they're gone. 
ARCHER: The other five species did survive. From what I can tell, they don't all live on        remote colonies like this one. 
GRALIK: The descendants of those that escaped are scattered across the Expanse. Many live        peaceful lives, but obviously not all. 
(The door opens.)
HAYES: Captain. 
ARCHER: I'll be right back. 
HAYES: Sir. 
ARCHER: It's okay.        
[Outside Gralik's home]
HAYES: The suppressors are in place. The blast wave should be mostly confined        to the facility. Sir, I noticed a lot of activity down there. It seemed like something is going on. 
ARCHER: (into communicator) Archer. 
T'POL [OC]: Captain, we've detected a ship approaching the planet. The hull        configuration matches the Xindi vessel that attacked us. 
ARCHER: (closing communicator) Reptilians.        
[Ridge overlooking refinery]
(Degra greets the Reptilian delegation, then they speak to Gralik's assistant. Archer;
hands the binoculars to Reed.) 
ARCHER: Recognise anyone? 
REED: The reptilians seem rather upset about something.        
[Sickbay]
(The weapon is in the Imaging Chamber.)
TUCKER: You got something? 
PHLOX: I've been running scans of the weapons organic component. It's        neural pathways appear to help modulate the rifle's power output.        It's the most sophisticated example of biomechanical engineering I've ever seen. 
TUCKER: You said you had good news, Doc? 
PHLOX: Ah, yes. I've been attempting to break down this creature's immune        system. 
TUCKER: You're trying to make it sick? 
PHLOX: However, it's proving to be quite resilient. I tried an array of        viruses and pathogens, but it's immune to all of them. Then I began        exposing it to various radioactive spectra. A sustained burst of        delta radiation. 
(He holds up a jar of dead maggot.)
TUCKER: If we rig up portable EM emitters we can knock out reptilian        weapons before any of them get the chance to pull the trigger. 
PHLOX: In theory. Unfortunately, the amount of radiation required would        be extremely hazardous to any humans in the area. 
TUCKER: It's still a place to start. Great work, Doc. Keep at it. 
PHLOX: And, Commander, I'd avoid exposing any of the Xindi technology       to omicron radiation. It seems to thrive on it, as you can see. 
(He goes to another jar of huge maggots.) 
TUCKER: I'll keep that in mind.        
[Gralik's home]
GRALIK: They're ahead of schedule. We weren't expecting them for another        three days. You might not have much time left to accomplish your mission. 
ARCHER: What makes you say that? 
GRALIK: We've been processing kemocite for them for nearly six months.        They're here for their final shipment. Captain, I'm the primary        technician in this facility. They'll want to talk to me before        accepting delivery, to confirm that all of their technical requirements have been met.        I may be able to obtain some information for you about this weapon. 
ARCHER: That could be dangerous. 
GRALIK: I'm willing to take that risk. 
ARCHER: How do I know you won't expose us, tell them about Enterprise? 
GRALIK: I'm proud of my craft, Captain. I've practiced it for many years.        I won't let my work be corrupted in this way. Seven million people. If I'd chosen my clients more carefully,        that tragedy might not have happened. I don't intend to let it happen again. 
ARCHER: (into communicator) Archer. 
REED [OC]: Captain, there are two Xindi biosigns heading this way. 
(An arboreal knocks on the door.) 
ARBOREAL [OC]: Gralik, are you there? Gralik? 
(They leave.) 
GRALIK: Degra's probably wondering where I am. His companions don't like to be kept waiting. 
(Another knock.) 
REED: Captain. They've gone. 
GRALIK: They'll return. Probably with armed reptilians. 
REED: Just because you didn't show up for work? 
GRALIK: There are fewer than a hundred people on this planet. It        doesn't go unnoticed when one of them is missing. Degra won't leave        until he sees the results of the final isotopic analysis. You should reconsider my offer.        
[Armoury]
(Two crewmen are setting up a target.) 
TUCKER: That's good, right there. 
T'POL: Are you sure this is wise? 
TUCKER: That's four inches of solid duranium. If this thing can blast a hole        through it then we're in even worse trouble than we thought. 
T'POL: Still, it might be prudent to find a more suitable environment to test it. 
TUCKER: We don't have time to go looking for some deserted asteroid if that's what you mean. 
PHLOX: If I may? Commander Tucker and I have learnt all we can from examining the        workings of the device. A practical test is the next logical step. 
TUCKER: I've rigged up four of Malcolm's force field emitters. They'll contain any blast debris. 
T'POL: What about radiation or particle disbursement? You know nothing about this device. 
TUCKER: That's the point. Those Xindi took out half of our security force        when they came aboard. Now, if we don't start making some progress        understanding their weapons, we won't stand a chance in hell of beating them when the time comes. 
T'POL: Let me know when you're ready. 
TUCKER: Give us an hour.        
[Refinery control room]
(Degra is watching the workers when the Reptilian enters.) 
REPTILIAN: More delays? 
DEGRA: We did surprise them by arriving early. 
REPTILIAN: That's no excuse. They should have been ready by now. Such lethargic creatures. 
DEGRA: You could learn something from them. Patience, for example. Where's Gralik? 
ARBOREAL: We can't find him. 
REPTILIAN: In a complex this size, how difficult can it be? 
ARBOREAL 2: We've searched everywhere. No one's seen him. 
ARBOREAL: He often takes walks outside the settlement. 
REPTILIAN: Walks? 
DEGRA: Without his analysis I can't proceed. 
ARBOREAL 2: We've organised search teams. 
REPTILIAN: We don't have time for you to go foraging through the forest. We'll find him ourselves.       
[Forest]
(Reed's scanner beeps.) 
ARCHER: What is it? 
REED: Someone's closing on our position, sir. Four hundred metres. 
ARCHER: Reptilians? 
REED: I'm not certain. Three hundred and fifty metres. 
ARCHER: (to Hayes) Stay with him. 
REED: Still closing, sir. Two hundred metres, one fifty. They're bloody fast, whoever they are. 
(Archer runs through the trees.) 
ARCHER: Take cover. 
(It's two flying devices, and one spots Archer's body heat behind a tree. He shoots it down. The other one comes up behind Reed and dodges his first shot, but gets winged with the other and it staggers away wounded.) 
GRALIK: It's a seeker. The reptilians built them for reconnaissance.        They were used to great effect during the war. It seems as though you may have been exposed after all. 
ARCHER: Let's hope they didn't get a very good look at us. 
GRALIK: There are some caves not far ahead. They should provide us with some        cover in case we encounter any more of those. 
[Armoury]
TUCKER: Ready, Doc? 
PHLOX: Ready. 
(Forcefields on, Tucker pulls the trigger and nothing happens.) 
T'POL: What's wrong? 
TUCKER: It won't fire. I don't understand. 
PHLOX: Perhaps it has a safety device. 
(There is a clicking sound.) 
T'POL: What's that? 
PHLOX: It's coming from the weapon. 
TUCKER: Looks like some kind of countdown. 
(T'Pol scans the weapon.) 
T'POL: The energy levels are increasing. It's overloading. 
TUCKER: I can't shut it down. Damn thing's booby-trapped. 
T'POL: If you remove the power cell 
TUCKER: It'll just grow back.  
(He runs out of the room with the weapon.)       
[Transporter alcove]
(Tucker knocks over a crewmen in the corridor, get to the bay and beams it into space just in time.)       
PHLOX: Quick thinking, Commander. 
TUCKER: You were right. We probably should have found a nice, empty asteroid to test it on.        
[Bridge]
T'POL: The Xindi ship is still in orbit. We haven't detected any other vessels.        
[Outside Cave]
ARCHER: Understood. 
T'POL [OC]: Captain, if the Xindi have detected your presence,        
[Bridge]
T'POL: I strongly urge you to return to the ship. 
ARCHER [OC]: I appreciate your concern.        
[Outside Cave]
ARCHER: But we still have a few loose ends to tie up down here. Archer out. Anything? 
REED: No, sir. We just might have stopped those bloodhounds before they transmitted our        position. 
ARCHER: Let's hope so.        
[Inside Cave]
(They've got a fire going.) 
ARCHER: No sign of the reptilians. 
GRALIK: I doubt they'll find us. That's topaline ore. It should disrupt their scanners.        Even their seekers won't locate us here. What do you intend to do now, Captain. Destroy our facility?        Do you plan to wait until I'm back inside or will you simply dispose of me here in the forest? 
ARCHER: I've been considering another option. 
GRALIK: I'd certainly like to hear it. 
ARCHER: The people in this colony had nothing to do with the attack on my planet. I'll be         damned if I'm going to make them pay for it. You offered to help us. Are you still willing? 
GRALIK: If you're prepared to trust me. 
ARCHER: Then we'll give them their kemocite, but it won't be exactly what they ordered.        
[Outside Cave]
ARCHER: Make sure he gets home safely. 
HAYES: Yes, sir. 
GRALIK: It would be better if I went alone. 
ARCHER: Good luck. 
GRALIK: And you. 
REED: Permission to speak freely? 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
REED: I'm not sure it was wise to let him go. 
HAYES: He could lead the reptilians back here. 
ARCHER: Are you speaking freely as well, Major? 
HAYES: Just offering a tactical assessment, sir. 
ARCHER: Noted. He said he'd help us. I believe him.        
[Bridge]
HOSHI: It's the Captain. Go ahead, sir. 
ARCHER [OC]: Tell the Armoury to hold off on those spatial charges. There's been a change of plans. 
T'POL: Is everything all right?        
[Outside Cave]
ARCHER: I'll let you know in a couple of hours. Right now, I have an assignment for you and Hoshi.        
[Refinery storage room]
(Gralik's assistants are putting canisters into boxes.) 
ARBOREAL: They're looking for you. 
GRALIK: Have you started loading the shipment? 
ARBOREAL 2: Not yet. 
GRALIK: Good! I want to run another refinement test. 
ARBOREAL: We've completed three already. The impurities were less than six parts per million. 
GRALIK: We have to be absolutely certain that we've met their specifications.        You know how important this is to all of us. 
ARBOREAL: We should get started. 
GRALIK: You two perform the isotopic analysis, I'll run the sub-molecular scans.       
[Forest]
(A kemocite canister is beamed to them.) 
ARCHER: We've got it.  
HOSHI [OC]: We've modified       
[Transporter alcove]
HOSHI: The radiolytic signature. If you can get it onboard their ship, I'll be able to track it.        
[Forest]
ARCHER: Understood.        
[Refinery storage area]
(Gralik is doing his tests when the Reptilian bursts in and grabs his arm.) 
REPTILIAN: Where were you?  
GRALIK: My personal activities aren't your concern. 
REPTILIAN: And do your personal activities involve destroying one of our seekers? 
GRALIK: I was hunting tree scarabs. Your drone was frightening them. 
REPTILIAN: Who was with you? 
GRALIK: I prefer to spend my time in the forest alone. 
REPTILIAN: Our scans detected other biosigns. 
GRALIK: I was alone. 
DEGRA: If you saw the drone, you knew we were here. Why didn't you return? 
GRALIK: You're two days early. 
DEGRA: What are you doing? 
GRALIK: Running some final tests. 
REPTILIAN: What kind of tests? We were told the shipment was ready. 
GRALIK: Forty two years. That's how long I've been running this facility, and never        once have I allowed a single gram of kemocite to leave the premises unless        it was perfectly calibrated. I take pride in my work, but if you're so eager to get underway        then go ahead, take your shipment. But if it doesn't meet your requirements don't        expect me to produce another hundred kilograms overnight, because we do have other clients besides you. 
DEGRA: Finish quickly.        
[Ridge overlooking refinery]
REED: There are two of them, loading containers. 
HAYES: Stand by, Captain.        
[Refinery fence]
ARCHER: Acknowledged.        
[Ridge overlooking refinery]
REED: They're heading back. 
HAYES: You're clear, sir.  
(Archer heads in through the hole he cut earlier. Reed and Hayes watch as he runs over to the Reptilian ship.)       
[Bridge]
REED [OC]: Reed to Enterprise. 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
REED [OC]: The Captain's inside the Xindi shuttle. 
T'POL: Acknowledged.        
[Xindi shuttle cargo bay]
(Archer opens one of the many containers.) 
REED [OC]: Captain, three Xindi have just come out of the complex. 
ARCHER: Understood.        
[Bridge]
T'POL: Lieutenant Reed, report. 
REED: We've run into a small problem. Stand by.        
[Outside refinery entrance]
DEGRA: We appreciate your efforts. 
GRALIK: Perhaps you'll need our services in the future. 
DEGRA: Perhaps. 
(In the shuttle, Archer swaps a canister of kemocite for the modified one.) 
GRALIK: I'll miss the pleasure of your company. 
REPTILIAN: We should go, Degra. We're behind schedule already. 
(Gralik is the only one with a view of the shuttle, and Archer leaving it.) 
GRALIK: We've invested a great deal in this project. 
REPTILIAN: And you've been well paid for it. 
GRALIK: Yes, you've been more than generous, but I'd appreciate it if you could tell me what this shipment        is being used for. I don't think it's an unreasonable request. 
REPTILIAN: It doesn't concern you. 
DEGRA: It concerns all of us. We've learned there's a threat to our people. 
GRALIK: What kind of threat? 
DEGRA: A ruthless alien species. If we don't act, they'll destroy us. 
(Archer is running off to the hills. The reptilian turns to follow Gralik's gaze and sees nothing) 
GRALIK: I'm glad we could contribute. 
DEGRA: Take pride in what you've done here.        
[Bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: Archer to Enterprise. 
T'POL: Go ahead. 
ARCHER [OC]: What's the status of that Xindi ship? 
TRAVIS: It broke orbit five minutes ago, Captain. 
ARCHER [OC]: Are you picking up the tracking signal? 
HOSHI: Loud and clear. 
ARCHER [OC]: Keep an eye on it. We'll be as soon as we can. 
T'POL: Acknowledged.        
[Gralik's home]
(Archer accepts a drink.) 
ARCHER: Thank you. Is something wrong? 
GRALIK: I may have just betrayed my people to a ruthless alien species. 
ARCHER: I promise you, you haven't. Please trust me. 
GRALIK: To trust. (they drink) 
ARCHER: Eventually, Degra's going to discover that you sabotaged his kemocite. 
GRALIK: It should delay their progress considerably. 
ARCHER: He'll come back here. 
GRALIK: Don't worry. I can deal with Degra and his friends. You should        just be concerned with finding this weapon. 
ARCHER: Their ship entered an energy portal after it left orbit. We've lost our tracking signal. 
GRALIK: The portal's range is only a few light years. Keep searching. 
ARCHER: I'd better get back to Enterprise. 
GRALIK: If everything you've told me is true about the attack on your world, I hope you remember        that all Xindi are not your enemy. 
ARCHER: I will.               

