Episode Number: 88
The Enterprise Transcripts - Babel One
Babel One
Mission date: Nov 12, 2154
Original Airdate: 28 Jan, 2005
[Andorian warship - Bridge]
(We enter a world of tangled metal, fires, and blue-skinned bodies slumped across consoles. One manages to get up and activate a communications panel.) 
SHRAN: Bridge to Engineering. Engineering, respond! 
(No reply, so he goes to another console.) 
SHRAN: This is the warship Kumari calling Imperial Command. We've been attacked by a Tellarite vessel. Primary systems have failed! Request immediate 
(He's interrupted by an explosion.) 
COMPUTER: Alert. Warp containment breach in two minutes. 
SHRAN: Tellarite swine! They will pay for this. This is Shran. All crew to the escape pods! Abandon ship. 
[Ready room]
HOSHI: The food on this ship isn't fit for animals! That mangy pet of yours would probably taste better. You can either take me home or find a new chef, it's that simple. Oh, something else. I want new quarters. 
ARCHER: Is that so. 
HOSHI: For one thing, my room is too small. There are plasma conduits running across the ceiling. It's noisy, it keeps me up all night. 
ARCHER: Maybe you'd sleep better in the Cargo bay. 
HOSHI: What did you say to me? 
ARCHER: This is a Starship, not a luxury liner. If you're not satisfied with the accommodations, we can leave you behind in a shuttlepod. Maybe you'll have better luck with whoever picks you up. And if you don't like Chef's food, don't eat it. From the looks of things, you should probably skip the dessert table while you're at it. 
HOSHI: That was a nice touch. 
ARCHER: I can't believe I'm supposed to speak to their ambassador like that. 
HOSHI: Tellarites always have a litany of complaints. It's how they start arguments with people they've just met. 
ARCHER: Even if they have nothing to complain about? 
HOSHI: In that case, they'll just insult you. Whatever they say, you have to respond in kind. Otherwise, they'll take offense. 
ARCHER: A species that actually thrives on arguing. They probably make good politicians. Thanks for the dry run. 
HOSHI: Sir. I wasn't kidding about Porthos. 
ARCHER: You think he's mangy? 
HOSHI: No, but you might want to keep him out of sight. Tellarites consider canines something of a delicacy. 
Captain's starlog, November 12, 2154. We've arrived in orbit of Tellar Prime. Starfleet's ordered us to transport their ambassador to a neutral planet designated as Babel, where Earth mediators will try to settle a long-standing trade dispute between the Tellarites and the Andorians. 
[Corridor]
ARCHER: Everything ready for our guests? 
TUCKER: Well, just about. But my people are working triple shifts trying to finish that mud bath they wanted. 
ARCHER: Mud bath? 
TUCKER: Apparently the ambassador likes a good soak in the morning. Something I don't understand. These Tellarites have warp ships, so why do we have to take them to the conference? 
ARCHER: Babel's on the far side of Andorian space. They won't allow Tellarite ships to pass through their territory. 
TUCKER: Now we're a shuttle service. When are we going to get back to exploring? 
[Turbolift]
ARCHER: This trade dispute is a little more urgent. It could turn into a shooting war if the conference fails. 
[Launch bay]
(A shuttlepod has just arrived, and an honour guard of MACOs join Archer and senior staff to welcome their guests aboard.) 
ARCHER: You people are even uglier than I remember. Captain Jonathan Archer. Welcome aboard. 
GRAL: Ambassador Gral. 
(The handshake turns into a test of strength.) 
GRAL: I'm told this ship is the pride of Starfleet. I find it small and unimpressive. 
ARCHER: Funny. I was about to say the same thing about you. 
GRAL: (smiling) You may show us to our quarters. 
NAARG: It's far too cold in here. We're expected to stay on this ship for five days? 
[Mess hall]
(It's a reception for the Tellarites.) 
TUCKER: So he says, 'Well, I'm not really a pilot.' Ah, you don't get it. 
(Archer enters.) 
ARCHER: Warm enough? 
T'POL: The Ambassador requested the temperature be increased. 
ARCHER: Again? 
TUCKER: You know, I like these people more than I thought I would. They don't hold anything back. It's refreshing, speaking your mind for a change. 
ARCHER: You don't feel free to speak your mind with the rest of us? 
TUCKER: No, you know what I mean. 
ARCHER: No. Maybe you'd like to explain it to me. Why don't you change your uniform before you stink up the place. 
TUCKER: Ah, practicing your Tellarite. I get it. 
(Tucker leaves, hoping he really does get it.) 
ARCHER: When in Rome. 
T'POL: I beg your pardon? 
ARCHER: Forget it. 
T'POL: The Ambassador wants to speak with you. 
ARCHER: What a surprise. 
(Gral is standing by a window.) 
GRAL: Have we crossed into Andorian space? 
ARCHER: A few minutes ago. 
GRAL: The last time I was here, I was on the Command deck of one of our cruisers, driving those blue demons back into their territory. The Andorians came to your aid during the Xindi crisis. 
ARCHER: They helped save my planet. 
GRAL: So why should we trust humans to mediate this dispute? You owe them your lives. 
ARCHER: Earth wants a peaceful outcome just as much as you do. That isn't going to happen if we choose sides. 
GRAL: Your people have no experience in interstellar affairs. 
ARCHER: It doesn't seem that you have a lot of other options. 
(Gral returns to the main table set with brightly coloured foods.) 
GRAL: Your Chef obviously went to a great deal of trouble. 
ARCHER: I'm told these are authentic Tellarite dishes. 
GRAL: If I'd wanted to eat like this, I would've stayed at home. I was expecting to sample Earth cuisine on this journey. 
ARCHER: I'll have him whip something up. 
HOSHI [OC]: Captain Archer to the Bridge. 
[Bridge]
HOSHI: We've picked up a message on an Andorian channel. 
SHRAN [OC]: Kumari calling Imperial Command. Been attacked. Primary systems have failed. Request immediate. 
HOSHI: That's it. 
TRAVIS: They have no ships within range. 
ARCHER: How long to intercept them at maximum warp? 
TRAVIS: Two hours. 
ARCHER: Alter course. Contact Babel. Let them know we're going to be delayed. 
(Two hours later -) 
REED: Judging by the debris pattern, I'd say their reactor breached. 
T'POL: I'm detecting significant quantities of duranium alloy. This was most likely an Andorian combat vessel. 
REED: Escape pods. Multiple biosigns. 
ARCHER: Bring them into the Launch bay. Tell Phlox to stand by for casualties. 
[Sickbay]
(The place is full of injured Andorians, and Shran is keeping close watch as Phlox examines a young woman.) 
PHLOX: This would be easier if you'd take a few steps back. 
SHRAN: I hope you've studied Andorian physiology. 
(Archer and T'Pol enter.) 
SHRAN: How many of my crew did you rescue? 
ARCHER: Nineteen. 
SHRAN: Our complement was eighty six. 
ARCHER: Your distress call said you were attacked. 
SHRAN: Tellarites! We were escorting our Ambassador to the trade conference when they dropped out of warp. The Ambassador's ship was destroyed in seconds. Tellarites crippled us with their next shot. I've never seen one of their vessels manoeuvre like this one. While those barbarians have been talking peace, they've obviously been improving their warships. 
T'POL: Why would the Tellarites agree to let Earth mediate your dispute if they were planning this strike? 
SHRAN: Perhaps you should ask them. I suggest you scan for our data recorder. It'll contain the sensor logs of the attack. 
(T'Pol leaves.) 
SHRAN: We seem to keep running into each other, Captain. It's fortunate Enterprise was close by. 
ARCHER: It's not a coincidence. We're carrying the Tellarite delegation. 
SHRAN: They're aboard this ship? 
ARCHER: These aren't the people who attacked you. 
SHRAN: They may know who did. 
ARCHER: Shran! 
(Archer stops him from storming out.) 
ARCHER: You're on my ship. 
SHRAN: You better keep them away from us or there will be bloodshed. 
[Armoury]
REED: I've analysed these hull fragments. The damage is consistent with Tellarite particle cannons. 
ARCHER: What about the black box? 
T'POL: The memory core was damaged, but I was able to reconstruct the last few seconds of sensor data. 
(They go over to the main monitor to view the fuzzy images.) 
ARCHER: Tellarites. Set course for Andoria, best speed. 
[Gral's quarters]
GRAL: These accusations are absurd. We had nothing to do with this alleged attack. 
ARCHER: The Andorian sensor logs. Look them over yourself. 
GRAL: Logs can be fabricated. 
ARCHER: You saw the debris field. 
GRAL: For all we know, they destroyed the ship themselves. Andorian technology is more advanced than ours. One of our cruisers wouldn't stand a chance against two of theirs! 
ARCHER: I want you to speak to your people. Find out what you can. 
GRAL: I am not comfortable with so many Andorians aboard. Contact your superiors. Have them transferred to another vessel. 
ARCHER: Let's get something straight. You're just a passenger on my ship. I give the orders. 
GRAL: Where are you taking them? 
ARCHER: Back to Andoria. 
GRAL: You can't. They'll arrest us. They'll hold us responsible for this incident. 
ARCHER: If you're innocent, I'm sure you have nothing to worry about. 
[Captain's mess]
(Shran and Archer are splitting a bottle of blue Andorian Ale.) 
SHRAN: To the Kumari. 
ARCHER: From what I saw, she was a fine ship with a good crew. 
SHRAN: I was in command for twelve years. First ship of her class. Most of the crew I served with even longer. They were more than colleagues. I knew their spouses, their children. I'm grateful Talas survived. If I'd lost her
ARCHER: I didn't realise there was something going on between the two of you. 
SHRAN: It's a recent development. In the past, I never would've considered a relationship with someone under my command. 
ARCHER: What changed? 
SHRAN: Andorian women are far more aggressive than Earth females. She made an overture. I had a choice. Charge her with assaulting a superior or mate with her. 
ARCHER: I hope you made the right decision. 
SHRAN: I regret that you're drawn into another of our conflicts, Captain. 
ARCHER: I seem to have a knack for it. 
SHRAN: I doubt that war can be avoided this time. When that sensor data is seen by Imperial Command. 
ARCHER: It doesn't make sense. Why agree to a conference, then attack your ambassador? 
SHRAN: Tellarites don't think like you or I do. They've been provoking us for months. We've lost six freighters along the border. We know they're responsible. 
ARCHER: Tellarites claim they've lost ships of their own. 
SHRAN: You'd accept their word over ours? 
T'POL [OC]: T'Pol to Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
T'POL [OC]: There's a ship on an intercept course. It's Andorian. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: You expecting company? 
(Shran shakes his head.) 
ARCHER: Hail them. 
HOSHI: They're not responding. 
REED: I'm reading a power buildup. They're opening fire. 
(Enterprise is rocked by multiple impacts.) 
ARCHER: What the hell are they doing? 
TRAVIS: Our warp field's destabilising. We're dropping to impulse. 
ARCHER: Call them off. 
SHRAN: Let me talk to them. This is Commander Shran of the Imperial Guard. Call off your attack! 
(More weapons fire.) 
SHRAN: My crew is aboard this ship. Do you hear me? Abort your attack! 
ARCHER: Phase cannons, return fire! 
REED: No damage. 
ARCHER: We need to get through their shields. How? They're going to kill all of us if you don't do something. 
SHRAN: I need to access your targeting array. 
(He goes to Reed's station.) 
SHRAN: These are the coordinates to their shield generator. 
ARCHER: Fire when ready. 
REED: Direct hit. 
HOSHI: Their shields are still at maximum. 
SHRAN: Impossible. 
ARCHER: Shran! 
(There's a big explosion on the Bridge.) 
REED: Our dorsal plating's almost gone. 
TRAVIS: Starboard thrusters are down. 
ARCHER: Torpedoes, maximum yield. 
(Another plume of flame behind them.) 
TRAVIS: They're moving off. 
T'POL: There's a fluctuation in their power grid. 
ARCHER: Good work. 
REED: That wasn't my doing, sir. I didn't target their power grid. 
[Conference room]
(The lights are slightly dim, and two armed MACOs are present.) 
ARCHER: Your government asked us to be a part of a conference, and now you're attacking us! 
GRAL: This makes perfect sense, Captain. They sent a distress call to lure you into a trap. 
SHRAN: We have no argument with Starfleet. 
GRAL: Your people tried to destroy this ship! 
SHRAN: Captain, I assure you, what happened does not represent the will or intent of my government. 
GRAL Admit the truth. The Imperial Guard never wanted this conference to take place. They've obviously taken matters into their own hands. 
SHRAN: Are you implying the Imperial Guard's been disloyal? 
GRAL: I don't have to imply anything. The facts speak for themselves. 
SHRAN: That may not have been an Andorian ship. 
ARCHER: What? 
SHRAN: Its shield matrix had a completely different configuration. 
GRAL: What is that supposed to prove? 
SHRAN: Several of our warships have been reported missing over the years. The Tellarites could have taken one of them, enhanced its systems. 
GRAL: He's suffering from paranoia, Captain. 
SHRAN: I'm not paranoid. Your people are trying to kill us! 
GRAL: I've had enough of your lies! 
(They try to come to blows across the table, and the MACOs pull them apart.) 
ARCHER: That's enough! You want to fight, I'll throw both of you in the Brig. You can tear each other to pieces. 
[Gral's quarters]
NAARG: What happened? 
GRAL: Archer claims to be impartial, but it's obvious he's inclined to believe the Andorians. We may have made a mistake in trusting these humans. 
NAARG: They've posted soldiers outside our quarters. We're prisoners on this ship. Have you stopped to consider Archer may be conspiring with the Andorians? 
[Situation room]
(Shran is escorted in.) 
ARCHER: T'Pol's found something you're going to want to see. 
T'POL: We retrieved this from your ship's data recorder. This is the power signature of the vessel that destroyed the Kumari. This signature belongs to the Andorian ship that attacked Enterprise. 
ARCHER: They're identical. 
SHRAN: That can't be correct. 
T'POL: Examine the data yourself. 
SHRAN: Your sensors are unsophisticated. There's been a mistake. 
ARCHER: We've confirmed the data. 
SHRAN: What are you suggesting? That these two vessels are actually the same ship? 
ARCHER: I don't know what I'm suggesting, but we need to keep our minds open. 
SHRAN: The Tellarites have violated every accord we've made with them. They can't be trusted. Your desire for a peaceful resolution is blinding you from the truth! 
T'POL: Commander, perhaps 
SHRAN: I've heard enough from you! Vulcans are expert liars. Perhaps your people are behind this. 
ARCHER: You're speaking to my First Officer. 
TUCKER [OC]: Tucker to the Bridge. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
[Engineering]
TUCKER: Warp engines will be online in ten minutes. We'll have hull plating back within an hour. 
ARCHER [OC]: Keep me updated. 
[Situation room]
ARCHER: We've located the warp trail of the ship that attacked us. We're going to follow it. 
SHRAN: Some of my crew are in serious condition. They need attention from our physicians. 
ARCHER: It'll take four days to get to Andoria. By then, that ship'll be long gone. 
[Captain's mess]
(Archer is just staring out of the window while T'Pol eats.) 
T'POL: Something wrong with your meal? 
ARCHER: Just not hungry. Do you think we're moving too fast? 
T'POL: Commander Tucker believes it's safe to maintain this warp factor. 
ARCHER: That's not what I meant. Earth's got a lot riding on the outcome of these talks, but I'm not sure we knew what we were getting into. These people have been feuding for over a century. Maybe we should've let your government handle this. 
T'POL: Although our relations have improved recently, it's clear the Andorians don't trust us. 
ARCHER: Aside from breathing oxygen, it doesn't seem to me that Andorians and Tellarites have a hell of a lot in common. 
T'POL: The same has been said about humans and Vulcans. 
ARCHER: Hoshi tells me you got a transmission from Vulcan this morning. 
T'POL: It was a personal message. It was from Koss. Our marriage has been officially dissolved. 
ARCHER: I'm sorry to hear that. 
T'POL: You have nothing to apologise for. 
REED [OC]: Bridge to Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: Archer. 
REED [OC]: I believe we've found the Andorian ship, sir. 
ARCHER: We're on our way.
(A very strange ship is hanging in space, looking like a nautilus or similar, with antennae instead of tentacles.) 
[Control area]
(The crew we see are Romulans, and there is someone with a metal helmet over their head, with lots of wires attached to it.) 
VALDORE: (a stocky man) Report. 
NIJIL: (silver hair) I have been unable to locate the malfunction. 
VALDORE: Then I suggest you double your efforts. This is enemy territory. We can't remain here any longer without 
(An alarm sounds.) 
NIJIL: There's a vessel approaching. 
VALDORE: Show me. 
(Enterprise appears on their viewscreen.) 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: You said you found the Andorians. 
REED: I don't understand it, sir. The warp trail ends right here. 
T'POL: Their primary systems are offline. 
ARCHER: Hail them. 
HOSHI: No response. 
T'POL: Biosigns are indeterminate. 
ARCHER: Magnify. Any idea what the spikes are? 
T'POL: They appear to be subspace transceivers. 
HOSHI: Why would they need so many? 
T'POL: Their hull is also lined with multi-spectral emitters. 
ARCHER: For what purpose? 
T'POL: I prefer not to speculate. 
ARCHER: (to Reed) Find out who these people are. Take a team of MACOs with you. 
REED: Their life support's offline. 
ARCHER: Bring Trip along. See if he can get it working. 
[Romulan ship]
(A party of four space-suited men beam aboard the 'Nautilus'.) 
REED: You two, start down there. 
MACO: Yes, Lieutenant. 
TUCKER: This whole section's depressurized. 
(Reed is walking with his knees bent.)
REED: Let's hope the rest of this ship isn't as cramped. 
TUCKER: I can't read anything through these bulkheads. 
REED: Stay alert. 
[Command area]
(Nijil is working on the connections to the other person's helmet.) 
NIJIL: The propulsion matrix still isn't functioning. 
VALDORE: How much longer? 
NIJIL: The repairs are underway. 
VALDORE: Prepare to overload the core. 
NIJIL: What? 
VALDORE: If we can't repair the matrix in time, I'll do whatever is necessary to keep it away from Starfleet. 
[Romulan ship]
TUCKER: Tucker to Enterprise. 
ARCHER [OC]: Go ahead. 
TUCKER: We haven't run into any welcoming parties yet. We've found a computer interface 
[Bridge]
TUCKER [OC]: But there's no power over here. I'm going to need T'Pol's help to bring it online. 
T'POL: Uplink your scanner. 
[Romulan ship]
(suddenly the lights come on) 
REED: What's happening? 
TUCKER: I didn't do anything. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Sir. 
(On the viewscreen, they see the ship start moving, taking pot shots at them as it goes past.) 
ARCHER: Evasive maneuvers. Get our people back. 
[Romulan ship]
(The ship's extraordinary manoeuvres have everyone falling over.) 
TUCKER: Captain, we're ready to come home whenever you are! 
[Bridge]
T'POL: They've reinforced their hull plating. 
[Romulan ship]
T'POL [OC]: We can only transport one at a time. 
TUCKER: Take Carender and Myers first! 
[Bridge]
T'POL: One of the MACOs is aboard. (another bang) They've hit our EPS couplings. 
ARCHER: Switch to auxiliary. (to Reed's lady stand-in) Target their weapons only. 
(Down in the transporter alcove, the other MACO arrives just before the device explodes.) 
TRAVIS: We're losing hull plating. 
HOSHI: Transporter's offline. 
ARCHER: Did we get everyone? 
HOSHI: Just the MACOs. 
ARCHER: T'Pol. 
T'POL: The primary phase coil is fused. It'll take several hours to repair it. 
HOSHI: Decompression on C deck, section three. 
T'POL: We have to withdraw. 
ARCHER: Archer to Trip. 
[Romulan ship]
ARCHER [OC]: We've lost the transporter. 
TUCKER: Understood. 
ARCHER [OC]: Sit tight until we come back for you. 
(Reed is hanging on for grim death.) 
REED: We'll be fine, sir. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Get us out of here, Travis. Maximum warp. 
[Command area]
(The person in the helmet is busy moving their fingers and turning their head.) 
NIJIL: They're retreating. 
VALDORE: Pursuit course. 
[Romulan ship]
(The sudden turn throws Reed against some conduits, and his air hose comes undone.) 
REED: Trip! 
(Tucker gets it reattached, but the dial is now down into the red.) 
TUCKER: You're down to eight minutes. 
(He connects his backpack and shares his air with Reed.) 
REED: Thanks. We're not going to get very far only sharing your supply. 
TUCKER: I'll try to get their life support online. 
REED: Right. With our luck, they probably breathe fluorine. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Warp four point nine. 
HOSHI: They're still closing. 
TRAVIS: Warp five. 
(Things are still going bang on the Bridge.) 
T'POL: They've matched our speed. 
ARCHER: Let's see what those new injectors can do 
TRAVIS: Five point oh two. Point oh four. Five point oh six. 
T'POL: They're falling behind. 
TRAVIS: The injector's stabilised. We're holding speed. 
ARCHER: Maintain your heading. 
[Shran's quarters]
TALAS: You're going to wear out the deck plating. Commander. 
SHRAN: Gral knows more about these attacks than he's admitting. How can Archer be so blind. 
TALAS: We have no choice but to let him deal with the situation. 
SHRAN: I'm not going to entrust the security of Andoria to the pinkskins or anyone else. We trusted the Tellarites once. We won't make that mistake again. With the appropriate persuasion, Gral will talk. 
TALAS: I doubt Archer's capable of a thorough interrogation. 
SHRAN: Then I'll have to question him myself. 
TALAS: There are guards outside our quarters. We don't even know what deck the Ambassador's on. 
SHRAN: Can you bypass their security protocols? 
[Romulan ship]
REED: Any luck? 
TUCKER: I can't find anything that even looks like an atmosphere recycler. I'm starting to wonder if this ship even has life support. 
REED: They must have atmosphere on their Bridge. 
TUCKER: Well, let's hope they don't mind sharing. 
[Command area]
NIJIL: The Starfleet ship has moved out of sensor range. 
VALDORE: The humans have seen too much. We can't allow them to escape. 
NIJIL: This vessel is a prototype. I told you it wasn't ready for combat. 
VALDORE: Find them! 
Captain's Starlog, supplemental. Our battle damage has been repaired, and we've resumed our search for the alien vessel. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Come in. 
T'POL: I analysed the data Commander Tucker sent back. The ship doesn't appear to be Tellarite or Andorian. 
ARCHER: Do we have any idea who built it? 
T'POL: There's a remote possibility. Its power matrix utilises boridium cells. We encountered a similar technology more than two years ago. 
ARCHER: The Romulan minefield. But the power cells on those mines were much larger and more primitive. 
T'POL: I did say it was a remote possibility. 
ARCHER: If this is a Romulan ship, why would they be stirring up trouble so far from home? 
T'POL: They have been known to act aggressively against species they see as a threat. 
ARCHER: We've never threatened them. As far as I know, neither have the Andorians or Tellarites. Maybe they're afraid of something else. The species in this region have a history of not getting along. This conference could've been the first step in changing that. 
T'POL: You believe they fear an alliance? 
ARCHER: The conference has been postponed indefinitely. It doesn't sound like there's going to be an alliance any time soon. Anything from Trip? 
T'POL: We're still too far away to detect a comm. signal. 
ARCHER: Well, keep me updated. 
[Romulan ship]
(Tucker uses his phase pistol to cut open a door lock.) 
REED: Another access tube? 
TUCKER: I'm starting to wonder if this ship even has a Bridge. 
REED: Yeah. 
TUCKER: Your air's down to twenty six minutes, Malcolm. 
REED: Perhaps it's on one of the lower levels. There's no rule that says the bridge has to be at the top of the ship. 
TUCKER: You see these data conduits? Chances are they converge on the Bridge. 
REED: So I understand our First Officer's no longer married. 
TUCKER: Yeah? 
REED: Well, I was wondering what your intentions were. 
TUCKER: Well, who are you, her father? 
REED: No. Simply curious. 
TUCKER: Malcolm! We've got something. 
(They open a ceiling panel.) 
REED: What is it? 
TUCKER: A maneuvering thruster. 
REED: Perhaps they'll be kind enough to give us the specs. 
TUCKER: It's chemically fuelled. Liquid hydrogen and oxygen. 
REED: We could refill our tanks. 
[Shran's quarters - outside]
(The door opens to reveal Talas in pink underwear and a classic provocative pose, one arm raised, one leg bent.) 
MACO: Can I help you? 
TALAS: I was hoping we could talk. I doubt you're aware of this. How could you be? 
(She steps into the corridor and begins fawning on the soldier.) 
TALAS: Andorian women are permitted one final conquest before their wedding. I've never had relations with a member of your species. I was hoping you'd indulge me. 
MACO: Go back to your quarters. 
TALAS: You won't even consider it? 
(He hears Shran coming up behind him, and hits him, but Talas gets hold of his rifle and disarms him. Then they have a quick fist-fight, which she wins.) 
[Command area]
VALDORE: What is it? 
NIJIL: There's a problem with one of the liquid fuel tanks. 
VALDORE: Another malfunction? 
NIJIL: No. The starboard transfer valve has been opened manually. 
VALDORE: Activate internal sensors. 
[Romulan ship]
TUCKER: How are you holding up? 
REED: A little light-headed. 
TUCKER: That's nothing new. I should've known better. 
REED: About what? 
TUCKER: Getting involved with a fellow officer. There's nothing going on between us anymore if you're interested. 
REED: That's not why I asked. 
TUCKER: Well, you said she had an awfully nice bum. 
REED: This is true. 
TUCKER: Pure oxygen. Be my guest. 
(He plugs Reeds air supply into the unit.) 
REED: Thanks. 
(Now Tucker replenishes his own air supply.) 
[Command area]
(The Romulans are moving around the surveillance camera images until they spot our two heroes.) 
VALDORE: : Hold. Magnify that image. Humans. 
NIJIL: If they make their way to the Bridge. 
VALDORE: Are the inertial stabilisers offline? 
NIJIL: They are. 
VALDORE: (to the helmeted pilot) Evasive manoeuvres. 
[Romulan ship]
(Suddenly Trip and Malcolm are shot backwards to a bulkhead at the end of the access tube.) 
REED: Magnetise your boots. 
(Now they can walk again.) 
[Gral's quarters]
(Shran puts his head out of a ceiling hatch and shoots two MACOs, before dropping to the floor. A fully dressed Talas follows him, and another Andorian.)
GRAL: We mustn't be 
(The Andorians burst in.) 
GRAL: What is this? 
SHRAN: I want to know why my ship was attacked. And then you're going to answer for your crimes against my people. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: What did you find? 
T'POL: We've discovered the function of the emitters on their hull. 
HOSHI: They're holographic projectors. It's a camouflage system. They can use it to mimic the appearance of almost any ship. 
ARCHER: Malcolm analysed the Andorian debris. He said that ship was destroyed by Tellarite weapons. 
T'POL: Their disruptor utilises triphasic emitters. They can simulate different kinds of weapons. 
TRAVIS: The one thing they couldn't mask is their power signature. That's why they 
CREWMAN [OC]: Security to Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
CREWMAN [OC]: There's weapons fire on G deck, outside the Tellarites' quarters. 
ARCHER: On my way. Get the MACOs down there. Seal off G deck. 
[Gral's quarters]
(Shran has his gun to Gral's head while Talas keeps Naarg quiet.) 
SHRAN: We know your government's behind the disappearance of our freighters. 
GRAL: We had nothing to do with that! 
SHRAN: You may have been able to convince Archer, but I'm not so gullible. I don't know a lot about Starfleet weapons, but I believe this setting will bore right through that thick hide of yours. The truth. Now! 
[Gral's quarters]
(In the corridor, 
MACOs and Andorians are fighting a running battle, and Starfleet win. 
Archer and the MACOs enter, guns ready.) 
SHRAN: Stay out of this, pinkskin. 
ARCHER: Shran, listen to me. The ship that attacked you wasn't Tellarite. 
SHRAN: I was there! 
ARCHER: I can prove it was someone else. 
(He lowers his phase pistol.) 
ARCHER: You're both being set up. Your ship was attacked because someone didn't want this conference to go forward. 
SHRAN: Who? 
ARCHER: I'm asking you, one captain to another. Look at the evidence before you do something you're going to regret. 
(Shran deactivates the phase rifle and hands it over. Naarg takes advantage of Talas' distraction to grab her weapon and shoot her with it. A MACO shoots him in return.) 
ARCHER: Get Phlox down here. 
TALAS: How bad? 
SHRAN: It's only superficial. You'll be fine. 
[Romulan ship]
TUCKER: The Bridge should be through there. 
(They go through the hatch into a dark, airless, unpopulated Bridge, with just a few consoles lit up and a weird contraption moving from side to side in the middle, mirroring the movements of the helmeted person.) 
[Control area]
NIJIL: They've entered the Bridge. 
(The camera pulls back to reveal that the Romulans are actually in a building, in a city, on a planet.) 
To Be Continued...

