Episode Number: 15
The Enterprise Transcripts - Sleeping Dogs
Sleeping Dogs
Original Airdate: 30 Jan, 2002
[Armoury]
(A phase pistol is loaded, and a target projector is set up.) 
REED: You have a ten second firing window. Ready? 
HOSHI: Ready. 
REED: Go. 
(He pushes a button on PADD, the 3D target starts moving around and Hoshi fires a lot of shots in its direction.) 
REED: Time. 
HOSHI: Any better? 
REED: Your hit to miss ratio is still below fifty percent. If those had been live rounds, you'd have blown out two or three bulkheads. 
HOSHI: I never had this much trouble with the EM-33. 
REED: This is an entirely new weapon. Unlike the EM-33 you don't have to compensate for particle drift. Just point straight at the target, and try and keep your shoulders relaxed. It's hard to aim accurately when you're tense. Ahem.
HOSHI: You all right? 
REED: Yeah, fine. You'll get the hang of it. Let's try for twenty seconds this time. 
(The engine sound changes.) 
HOSHI: I thought we were staying at warp for the next few days. 
(Reed checks the monitor.) 
REED: We're approaching a gas giant. Class nine. 
HOSHI: So much for target practice. 
REED: We'll pick it up tomorrow. 
[Bridge]
T'POL: The probe's entered the outer atmosphere. 
(The viewscreen is fuzzy orange.) 
ARCHER: Can we clean up the signal? 
HOSHI: I'm trying, sir. There's a lot of EM interference. It sounds very strange. 
T'POL: Intense magnetic fields often create unique waveforms. 
ARCHER: Let's hear them. 
(Electronic Jupiter-type music,) 
TRAVIS: Siren calls. That's what we called them when I was a kid. My dad would put them through the speakers whenever we flew by a gas giant. It gave me nightmares sometimes. 
(Hoshi stops the sounds.) 
T'POL: Other than keeping Ensign Mayweather up at night, I'm not sure what we expect to accomplish here. There are four gas giants in your own solar system. 
ARCHER: None of them are class nine. I think this one's worth a closer look. 
T'POL: I'm reading an anomalous power signature in the lower atmosphere, and several biosigns. 
ARCHER: Get the probe closer. 
TRAVIS: Aye, sir. 
(Through the murk, a ship comes into view.) 
[Sickbay]
(Reed sneezing into a tissue.) 
REED: We can travel faster than the speed of light. You'd think we could find a cure for the common cold. 
PHLOX: You should be grateful. A human cold is so mild. I once had a patient with the Kamaraazite flu. He sneezed so violently he nearly regurgitated his pineal gland. 
REED: I don't see how I could actually catch a cold on a hermetically sealed starship. 
PHLOX: Oh, you may have picked up the virus from a piece of equipment. It could have been lurking inside a sealed container. 
REED: I did open a case of plasma coolant. 
PHLOX: Whoever packed that case was probably nursing a cold. 
REED: But that was back in Spacedock five months ago. 
PHLOX: You underestimate the tenacity of a virus, Lieutenant. It can lay dormant for months, adapt to whatever environment it finds itself in. This should ease the symptoms. 
(Phlox gives Reed a hypospray.) 
PHLOX: But the only cure I know of involves bed rest. 
REED: No, that'll have to wait. The Captain wants me on the team investigating that shipwreck. 
PHLOX: Well, you won't be contagious inside an environment suit. Just try not to sneeze in your helmet. 
REED: I'll do my best. 
[Ready room]
ARCHER: Come in. Hoshi. 
HOSHI: Do you have a minute, sir? 
ARCHER: Of course. What's on your mind? 
HOSHI: That shipwreck. We have no idea what type of life forms we'll find on that alien vessel, and there's a lot of interference in the atmosphere. Are you sure the away team won't need a translator? 
ARCHER: They have their UTs, and we'll try to keep an open comlink. 
HOSHI: What about the language on the control panels, the hatches? They might need someone to help them find their way around. 
ARCHER: Are you trying to tell me something? 
HOSHI: I realise that I haven't always been the first one in line to volunteer for this type of mission, but I want you to know that I am prepared to go. Took a while, but I think I finally got my space legs. 
ARCHER: I never doubted that you'd find them. Your timing couldn't be better. T'Pol just asked me to assign you to the team. You'd better get to the launch bay before they leave without you. 
HOSHI: Aye, sir. 
[Locker room]
T'POL: I thought you were acquainted with the environmental suit. 
HOSHI: I am. I'm just brushing up on the backup systems. I wouldn't want the emergency oxygen to fail during a hull breach. 
REED: Trust me, Ensign. If there's a hull breach the pressure will crush you to something about this big. 
(He holds up a clenched fist.) 
T'POL: I requested you for your skills as a translator, but if you're uncomfortable. 
HOSHI: I'm perfectly comfortable. I used to find the suits a little claustrophobic, but I'm getting used to them. I'll see you in the shuttlepod. 
[Shuttlepod]
(Reed is doing the flying.) 
REED: It's one hundred kilometres below us, still descending. 
T'POL: Gravity's pulling it deeper into the atmosphere. At their current altitude the pressure is fifteen thousand gsc. 
REED: That's well within our hull tolerance. 
T'POL: For the moment. But at the rate that vessel is sinking, we'll have an hour at most. 
HOSHI: You sound uncomfortable, Sub-Commander. 
T'POL: I'm merely stating facts. 
REED: We'll be on our way back well before we're in any danger. I for one have no interest in imploding a valuable shuttlepod. 
HOSHI: Or three valuable officers. 
(The pod shakes.) 
T'POL: We've entered an eddy of liquid helium. We're clear. 
HOSHI: That wasn't so bad. 
T'POL: One hundred metres. 
HOSHI: Is that a hatch on the port side? 
REED: I see it. 
T'POL: Fifty metres. Forty. 
HOSHI: What's that? 
REED: It's just the proximity alarm. 
T'POL: Twenty metres. Ten. Engaging docking interface. 
[Alien ship]
T'POL: Nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere. Carbon dioxide levels are high, but nothing's toxic. It's breathable. 
HOSHI: You first. 
(Reed opens his helmet and nods, T'Pol opens hers and nearly gags.) 
HOSHI: Perhaps we should leave the helmets on. 
REED: What is it? 
HOSHI: (coughing) You can't smell that? 
REED: No. This damn cold. 
HOSHI: Count your blessings. 
(They walk along the corridor.) 
HOSHI: You two might want to take a look at this. 
(There are symbols on a bulkhead.) 
HOSHI: It says deck two, red sector. 
REED: What language? 
HOSHI: Klingon. 
(All draw their phase pistols.) 
HOSHI: I thought you knew Klingon ships. Why didn't you recognise this one from the outside? 
T'POL: There are many classes of ships. I'm not familiar with all of them. 
REED: So I'm assuming you don't know how many Klingons are on board. 
T'POL: I'm reading three biosigns. That way. All very weak. 
HOSHI: How weak? 
[Klingon bridge]
T'POL: They're still alive. We should leave before they regain consciousness. 
REED: And what if they don't? The atmosphere's going to crush this ship like an eggshell pretty soon. 
HOSHI: Shouldn't we try to help them? 
T'POL: They don't want our help. 
HOSHI: How do you know? 
T'POL: They're Klingons. To die at their post assures them a path to the afterlife. If we rescue them, they'd be dishonoured. 
REED: Well, I for one don't intend to just fly off and let these people die, honourable deaths or not. 
T'POL: Your compassion is admirable but misguided. If they awake and find us on their ship, they'll kill us. 
(In the Klingon galley, there are carcasses hanging from butcher's hooks, some green stuff in bowls. A woman walks out of a storage area,) 
[Klingon bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: How many are there? 
T'POL: Three on the bridge, but I'm detecting at least nine more biosigns on board. 
ARCHER [OC]: You can't tell what happened to them? 
[Bridge]
T'POL [OC]: I'm detecting residual amounts of an carbon dioxide based neurotoxin, but it seems to have dissipated. There's not enough to affect us. 
ARCHER: Stand by. How long is the pod's hull going to hold up? 
TUCKER: At their present rate of descent, half hour, give or take. 
ARCHER: T'Pol. 
T'POL [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
ARCHER: You've got twenty minutes to see if you can do anything for that crew, then I want you out of there. 
[Klingon bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: Understood? 
T'POL: I don't believe there's anything we can do in twenty minutes. I suggest we leave now. 
ARCHER [OC]: You have a margin of safety. 
(He crackles out.) 
T'POL: Captain? T'Pol to Enterprise. 
[Klingon corridor]
(The Klingon woman moves towards the voices.) 
REED [OC]: Damn interference. 
T'POL [OC]: Or we've dropped out of comm. range. 
HOSHI [OC]: We still have twenty minutes. 
T'POL [OC]: It doesn't make sense to place ourselves at risk when they'd rather die. 
REED [OC]: There must be something we can do. Maybe they have a distress beacon we can activate. 
[Klingon bridge]
(The woman sees them then retreats.) 
T'POL: I doubt you'll find one. Klingons don't call for help. 
HOSHI: What if we carry some of them into the pod? We could save three or four. 
T'POL: And if they wake up on the trip back to Enterprise? 
(The sound of a bulkhead closing. Reed pulls his pistol and goes to investigate. The woman jumps him and escapes.) 
[Klingon Corridor]
HOSHI: What's that? 
T'POL: It's our shuttlepod taking off. 
[Bridge]
TUCKER: Try it now. 
ARCHER: Archer to T'Pol. What's your status? 
TUCKER: They're back in comm. range. 
(Travis sees the shuttlepod leaving the gas giant.)
TRAVIS:  Captain. 
ARCHER: Shuttlepod One, respond. 
TRAVIS: Sir, they're heading into open space. 
TUCKER: I'm picking up something. 
BU'KAH [OC]: Duj-to! Chak wa kah Deesh paklah! kah Deesh paklah! 
ARCHER: Sounds like Klingon. 
TUCKER: I'll try to tie in the UT. 
BU'KAH [OC]: Chak wa kah Deesh paklah! kah Deesh paklah! 'kiv Duj in range. Respond. We've been attacked by an unknown ship designation Enterprise NX-01. Any warships in range, respond. 
ARCHER: Set a pursuit course. 
TRAVIS: Aye, sir. 
ARCHER: Bring the grappler online. 
(The launcher lowers, two lines are fired and latch onto the shuttlepod.) 
TUCKER: We've got it. 
ARCHER: Bridge to Security. Send a team to launch bay one. Trip. The bridge is yours, Travis. 
TRAVIS: Yes, sir. 
[Launch bay]
(Archer and Trip enter cautiously, with phase pistols drawn, two security guards right behind them. The pod hatch is open, and Bu'kaH jumps the guard who goes to look inside. It takes stun shots from both Archer and Trip to knock her out.) 
ARCHER: Everybody all right? 
(Trip nods as the guards get up again.) 
ARCHER: Archer to the Bridge. 
TRAVIS [OC]: Mayweather. 
ARCHER: Have you still got a fix on the shipwreck? 
TRAVIS [OC]: Yes, sir. 
ARCHER: Transfer the coordinates to the launch bay. I'm going back for the boarding party. 
TRAVIS [OC]: Sir, the alien ship sunk another two thousand metres. It's below the shuttle's safety limits. 
ARCHER: Then polarise the hull plating. We'll take Enterprise down. 
[Klingon Bridge]
REED: There's got to be some way off this ship. 
HOSHI: What about escape pods? 
REED: I don't know about the structural integrity of Klingon escape pods. My guess is we're better off in here. 
T'POL: It's irrelevant, Lieutenant. Klingons don't use escape pods. It would be considered an act of cowardice to abandon ship. 
HOSHI: Maybe we can use their comm. system to contact Enterprise. 
T'POL: I doubt their comm. will penetrate the EM field any better than our own. If we can access their helm controls we might be able to put this vessel into a stable orbit. 
REED: I haven't had much experience at piloting Klingon ships. 
T'POL: We have no other choice. 
(The hull groans under the pressure.) 
T'POL: Start translating those consoles. Look for anything marked propulsion, helm, navigation. 
HOSHI: I'll try, but reading Klingon is a lot different than speaking it. 
REED: We could always try waking one of them to help us. 
HOSHI: All right. (reads a monitor screen) Kolat chack tabak. Plasma containment, maybe. 
T'POL: You're certain? 
HOSHI: Containment. I'm certain. 
(She moves to the next screen.) 
HOSHI: Pu'DaH dak cha. Something they call photon torpedoes. 
REED: Photon torpedoes? I've never heard of anything like that. What else? 
HOSHI: Well, this all looks like weapons systems. Torpedoes, tactical sensors, disruptor arrays. 
T'POL: (another screen) What about this one? 
HOSHI: I recognise pressure. Ka'tahl. That can mean wall or barrier. 
T'POL: Or hull? 
HOSHI: Maybe. 
REED: If I'm reading this correctly we've got a few hours at most. The hull integrity's failing. 
T'POL: Then we'd better hurry. This appears to be the helm station. 
HOSHI: I think you're right. Quee nagah. Impulse drive. 
REED: Good work, Hoshi. 
(Reed tries to use the controls, but alarms sound instead and text scrolls on a screen.) 
REED: Hoshi? 
HOSHI: It says the pressure's failing in the J'khat bah. Fusion manifold. Do you know what that means? 
REED: To quote our very own Mister Tucker, that means we're dead in the water. 
ARCHER [OC]: Archer to boarding party. Come in. 
HOSHI: We read you, Captain. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: How are you holding up? 
HOSHI [OC]: We're doing okay, sir. It's nice to hear your voice. 
ARCHER: What's your status? 
[Klingon Bridge]
T'POL: We've been attempting to restart their engines, but they appear to be offline. 
ARCHER [OC]: Don't worry about it. We're coming to get you. 
[Bridge]
ARCHER: Travis, how much farther? 
TRAVIS: Ten thousand metres, but I'm having a hard time getting a fix on them. Too much interference. 
ARCHER: Is our probe still working? 
TUCKER: Barely. 
ARCHER: Try using it to triangulate their position. 
(But we see the probe implode.) 
TUCKER: The probe's gone. 
(The hull groans.) 
TRAVIS: Sir, external pressure's at maximum. 
ARCHER: I'm afraid we've got a little hitch in our rescue plan. 
(Big metallic groans.) 
TRAVIS: The hull plating's failing. 
ARCHER: We'll be back for you as soon as we can. 
[Klingon Bridge]
ARCHER [OC]: In the meantime, just sit tight. 
(He dissolves into static.) 
HOSHI: Captain, you're breaking up. Captain? 
[Sickbay]
(The Klingon woman is struggling against biobed restraints.) 
BU'KAH: Release me. Cowards! Let me die on my feet. 
PHLOX: T'Pol was right. There's a neurotoxin in her bloodstream. Untreated, it could kill her within a day or two. 
ARCHER: Can you do anything? 
PHLOX: I'm working on it. 
TUCKER: T'Pol said the Klingons were unconscious. Why is this one so lively? 
PHLOX: She's showing the effects of hypothermia. My guess is she took refuge in a low temperature environment aboard her ship. The cold would have delayed the effects of the toxin. 
BU'KAH: I demand to speak to your Captain. 
TUCKER: You know, I read if they sense a leader's weak, they'll try to kill him and take command. 
ARCHER: I'm the Captain. 
BU'KAH: I've never seen your kind before but you have made an enemy of the Klingon Empire. 
ARCHER: From what I've noticed, that's not hard to do. You stranded three of my people down there. 
BU'KAH: You raided my vessel, infected my crew. 
ARCHER: We didn't infect anyone. We boarded your ship to try and help. 
BU'KAH: Liar. 
ARCHER: Look, I don't know what happened to your crew but we had nothing to do with it. Now your vessel is sinking deeper into the atmosphere and unless we do something, it'll be destroyed. 
BU'KAH: Better that than let it fall into your hands. 
ARCHER: I've got three very capable people on your ship. Let them help. If you tell them how to get the engines running, they can fly it out of there. 
BU'KAH: And fly it where? Back to your world to steal our secrets? 
ARCHER: No. 
BU'KAH: When our Birds of Prey arrive, your ship will be destroyed. 
ARCHER: (to Trip, leaving) Remind me to stop trying to help people. 
[Situation room]
TRAVIS: I found these schematics in the Vulcan database. It's a Raptor Class scout vessel. 
ARCHER: How long will it last down there? 
TRAVIS: Its hull's at least twice as thick as ours, reinforced with some kind of coherent molecular alloy. 
TUCKER: Yeah, it's a tough little ship but it can't hold up under that pressure forever. What if we use duratanium braces to reinforce a shuttlepod? It won't look pretty but, it might hold up long enough for us to get our people out. 
TRAVIS: Our only other option is for T'Pol and Malcolm to fix a broken-down Klingon ship and fly it out themselves. 
ARCHER: I don't think we're going to get any help from our guest in Sickbay. Get started on those braces. 
(Trip leaves.) 
ARCHER: Keep an eye out for any Klingon ships coming this way. 
TRAVIS: Aye, sir. 
[Klingon Bridge]
(The three have removed their outer suits and are down to blue long-johns.) 
REED: The one time we need our Chief Engineer is the one time we leave him behind. 
HOSHI: Come look at this. 
(She gets a recording playing on a screen in front of the captain's chair.) 
KLINGON [on monitor]: OonoS Thrott! Nej joS mIch ka Xanant 'ach pagh Q'tahL Class planet. We destroyed their ship, but we've sustained damage in our port fusion injector. We've descended into the outer atmosphere of a Q'tahL Class planet to make repairs in case there are other Xarantine ships in the area. My crew is falling ill and I have been unable to determine why. If we had died when the Xarantine attacked our honour would be secure, but to fall victim to some disease, to be crushed into nothing in the depths of this miserable planet. 
REED: Sounds like we need to find the port fusion injector. 
HOSHI: Wait, I saw that somewhere. Here. One deck below us. It's in the reactor pit. 
REED: Reactor pit? Could that be Engineering? 
HOSHI: Could be. 
[Klingon Engineering]
REED: This one? 
HOSHI: No. That says something about plasma induction. Here it is. Port fusion injector. 
(The panel has a Klingon slumped across it, so Reed and T'Pol haul him away.) 
[Shuttlepod]
(Archer is doing some welding.)
ARCHER: I think I might have made a tactical error dealing with the Klingon woman. I asked her for help. She could see that as a sign of weakness. 
TUCKER: You been boning up on your Klingon psychology? 
ARCHER: We've run into them three times, and every time they've wanted to destroy us. I'd love to figure out why. 
TUCKER: Well, maybe the best thing is just to steer clear of them. 
ARCHER: That may not be so easy. We could use their help right now. If we can re-establish a comm. signal with T'Pol and the others, the Klingon woman could probably talk them through the repairs, but she's got a thousand generations of instinct telling her not to trust me. 
TUCKER: Maybe it's time you started thinking like a Klingon. 
[deleted scene] 
PHLOX [OC]: Sickbay to Captain Archer. 
ARCHER: Go ahead. 
[Sickbay]
PHLOX: You'll be pleased to know I've developed an antitoxin. There's an interesting wrinkle, though. When you have a moment I'd like to share it with you. 
[Klingon Engineering]
(Reed stand up, staggers and burns his hand against a pipe.) 
REED: Argh! 
HOSHI: Are you okay? 
REED: Yes. I seem to be getting a little light-headed. Must be the heat. 
T'POL: You're dehydrated. You need some water. 
HOSHI: I saw a galley on the schematics. Deck four, blue sector. I'll see what I can find. 
T'POL: You shouldn't go alone. 
REED: Watch yourselves. 
[Klingon Galley]
(Hoshi picks up a bowl to see what's in it.) 
T'POL: It's called gagh. It's a Klingon delicacy, but only when they're alive. 
HOSHI: They look like worms. 
T'POL: They are worms. 
(Hoshi stirs the ladle in a pot and pulls up an animal skull.) 
HOSHI: Ugh! 
(They hear movement from behind a door, and ready their phase pistols. T'Pol opens the door to reveal three pigs with lots of spines and attitude, then shuts it again) 
T'POL: Targs. Klingons prefer their food freshly slaughtered. Are you all right? 
(Hoshi sits down, scared and upset.) 
HOSHI: I promised myself I wouldn't do this. 
T'POL: You're in a dangerous situation in an alien environment. Your anxiety is understandable. 
HOSHI: Don't you mean, for a human? 
T'POL: You can't deny your nature. 
HOSHI: This may sound strange but I envy you sometimes. I know, another pesky human emotion, but there are times I wish I could just ignore my feelings. Bury them the way Vulcans do. 
T'POL: Take my hand. 
HOSHI: Excuse me? 
(T'Pol kneels in front of her.)
T'POL:  My hand. Close your eyes. 
(She puts three fingers on Hoshi's palm.) 
T'POL: Think of yourself on a turbulent ocean. You have the power to control the waves. 
HOSHI: Whatever it is you're trying to do, it's not working. 
(T'Pol shifts her fingers.) 
T'POL: Focus. The waves are subsiding. The water is growing still. You're in control. 
HOSHI: That was amazing. 
T'POL: When we return to the ship, I'll teach you how to do it on your own. 
HOSHI: Thanks. 
(The ship jolts.) 
T'POL: Lieutenant Reed, report. 
[Klingon Engineering]
REED: The hull pressure's approaching critical. This ship's about to be crushed. 
(A visual of the outer hull starting to cave in. Reed is drinking.) 
REED: It'll work. 
T'POL: If you're wrong, you could destroy the ship. 
REED: Look, even with Hoshi's help it could take hours just to find the fusion injector in here. We're out of time. 
HOSHI: I say we try the weapons. 
T'POL: How do you know you can even access the tactical systems? 
REED: If there's one thing on board this ship I ought to be able to figure out, it's the torpedoes. 
[Ready room]
TUCKER: I'd like to run one more structural diagnostic before you launch. 
ARCHER: Qapla'. 
TUCKER: Beg your pardon? 
ARCHER: Success. I decided to take your advice about thinking like a Klingon. The Vulcan database has about nine hundred pages on them. 
TUCKER: Learn anything? 
ARCHER: Plenty. They're driven by a warrior mentality. They tend to view anyone they meet as a potential enemy. 
TUCKER: That may explain why our guest is so irritable. 
ARCHER: They also have a strong sense of duty. Er, Heh CHo' mruak tah. Death before dishonour. Finish up that diagnostic. I'll be in Sickbay. 
TUCKER: Going to go put your homework to use? 
ARCHER: Something like that. 
[Sickbay]
(Phlox gives Bu'kaH;a hypo.) 
PHLOX: Please relax. If you strain against the straps you might hurt yourself. 
BU'KAH: What's that? Is that what you used against my crew? 
ARCHER: Doctor Phlox has developed an antidote to the neurotoxin in your system. 
BU'KAH: Is this how you plan to gain my trust? First poison me, then miraculously cure me? 
ARCHER: Have you had a drink lately? 
BU'KAH: What? 
ARCHER: The bio-agent that affected you and your crew was consumed, apparently in alcohol. 
PHLOX: Specifically, the toxin was bonded to a molecule unique to Xarantine ale. 
BU'KAH: There was a raid. 
ARCHER: Yes? I can understand your not wanting to talk about it, if the raid went badly for you. 
BU'KAH: The Xarantines are no match for us! We attacked their outpost and took what we wanted. 
PHLOX: And that included some Xarantine ale? 
(She nods) 
ARCHER: Did your whole crew drink it? 
BU'KAH: The triumph belonged to all. 
ARCHER: I'll take that as a yes. It was that ale that infected you, not us. Think about it. When did your crew start getting sick? Was it right after the raid? After you celebrated your victory? 
BU'KAH: This is a trick. 
ARCHER: Is it? How do you feel? Better or worse since the injection? We can make enough of this for your entire crew, if it's not too late. What if this isn't a trick? What if we're telling you the truth? You'd be letting your crew die a very dishonourable death when you could have saved them. Can you live with that? 
[Klingon Bridge]
(A photon torpedo has been fired down into the lower atmosphere.) 
HOSHI: One thousand metres. Two thousand. Three thousand. 
(Detonation, the ship shakes.) 
HOSHI: No effect! We're still sinking. 
T'POL: The shock wave dissipated before it reached us. 
REED: We'll need to detonate one closer next time. 
(The hull groans) 
T'POL: The ship's hull is under enough pressure already. If you detonate a torpedo too close. 
REED: And if I don't? We need to generate a large enough shock wave to push us into a higher orbit. To do that, the blast has to be big and it has to be close. 
(T'Pol nods.) 
REED: You heard the Sub-Commander. Load two this time. 
[Shuttlepod]
(Archer is doing the flying.) 
ARCHER: Sensor resolution's dropping off. 
BU'KAH: This was your plan? To grope in the darkness and hope to stumble across my ship? 
ARCHER: That's how we found it the first time. 
(The shuttlepod jolts.) 
BU'KAH: What was that? 
ARCHER: Weapons fire. 
BU'KAH: Where? 
ARCHER: Bearing two nine seven mark two six one, down about two kilometres. 
[Klingon Bridge]
REED: Did it work? 
HOSHI: We've moved up, but only two hundred metres. 
REED: That's all? 
(There is a big bang inside the ship.) 
HOSHI: A compartment just collapsed. Deck three, green sector. 
REED: This whole damn ship's coming apart. How many torpedoes do we have left? 
HOSHI: Six. 
REED: Load two more. 
HOSHI: It won't be enough. 
REED: Load the weapons. 
HOSHI: We already tried. It didn't work. 
REED: Ensign. 
T'POL: She's right. We'll never reach a safe altitude climbing a few hundred metres at a time. 
REED: The longer we stand around arguing the more ground we lose. 
HOSHI: Fire them all. What if we detonated all the torpedoes at once? 
T'POL: We may gain enough altitude, but I doubt we'd make it in one piece. 
HOSHI: I don't know about you but I'm willing to take the chance. 
REED: We'll detonate at eight hundred metres. 
HOSHI: I was thinking more like five hundred. Look, I didn't come all this way to get crushed in the atmosphere of some anonymous gas giant. Loading ports one through six. 
REED: Brace yourselves. 
HOSHI: Torpedoes armed. (as she presses the launch button, circuits explode on the bridge) 
[Shuttlepod]
BU'KAH: What is it? 
ARCHER: Another explosion. There's a shock wave this time. Hang on. 
(Debris flies up past the shuttlepod, then the ship itself comes into view.) 
[Klingon Bridge]
(T'Pol answers her communicator.) 
T'POL: T'Pol. 
ARCHER [OC]: What have you been shooting at? 
REED: We used the shock waves to gain some altitude but it's only temporary. We'll start sinking again unless we can come up with a way to get this ship out of here. 
[Shuttlepod]
ARCHER: I brought someone who should be able to help do just that. We're docking now. 
[Klingon corridor]
ARCHER: I believe you've all met Officer Bu'kaH. What's the status of their engines? 
T'POL: The Klingon crew made most of the necessary repairs before they were overcome, but the port fusion injector is still damaged. 
BU'KAH: I will tend to my own ship. 
ARCHER: I didn't bring you down here just so you could die with your shipmates. My crew risked their lives to get this ship out of danger. I don't intend to leave until the job is finished. 
[Bridge]
TRAVIS: Sir, there are two ships approaching at high warp. I think they're Klingon. 
TUCKER: How long till they get here? 
TRAVIS: Sixteen minutes. We're being hailed. It's the Captain. 
TUCKER: On screen. 
ARCHER [on viewscreen]: This is Klingon Raptor Somraw, hailing Enterprise. Request permission to disembark four passengers. 
(Bu'kaH is in the Captain's chair.) 
TUCKER: Well, I don't see why not. 
(A little later) 
TUCKER: I kept your seat warm for you. 
ARCHER: Thanks. Get ready to break orbit, Travis. I think we've had about enough of this place. 
TRAVIS: Aye, Captain. It's the Raptor, sir. They're hailing us. 
TUCKER: Calling to say thanks? 
ARCHER: I doubt it. Put it through. 
(The Klingon Captain appears on the viewscreen.) 
What can I do for you? 
KLINGON [on viewscreen]: Prepare to surrender your vessel. 
ARCHER: Maybe your engineer neglected to tell you, but we just saved you and your crew. 
KLINGON [on viewscreen]: You violated our ship, accessed our weapons. 
ARCHER: It was either that or stand by and watch you get crushed. 
KLINGON [on viewscreen]: Disruptors! 
TUCKER: They're charging weapons. 
ARCHER: You wouldn't last ten seconds in a battle with us. You've got multiple hull breaches, your shields are down, and from what I'm told you're fresh out of torpedoes. If I were you, I'd take what little honour I had left and go home. Fire one shot and I'll blast you right back to where we found you. 
(The transmission ends with a snarl.) 
TRAVIS: They're moving off. 
ARCHER: Get us out of here before their friends show up. 
(He shakes head.) 
[Decon chamber]
(The team is relaxing in the UV light, and the comm. unit is beeping.) 
REED: Is someone going to get that? 
HOSHI: You're closer. 
T'POL: T'Pol. 
PHLOX [OC]: This is Doctor Phlox. You'll be happy to know that you're now free of any microbes or parasites. Your captivity in Decon is over. 
REED: Are you sure, Doctor? Who knows what was living on that ship? 
HOSHI: What if we picked up something your scans can't detect? 
PHLOX [OC]: Well, I'm quite sure you didn't. I've run every possible test. 
T'POL: Maybe you should run them again, Doctor. I believe I'm developing a slight headache. 
PHLOX [OC]: Of course, if you insist. I wouldn't want to miss anything. 
T'POL: Thank you, Doctor. 
REED: That should buy us at least another half an hour. 
HOSHI: Oh, I could stay in here all day. 
REED: Went to a spa once in Mexico. The most relaxing place I've ever been, but it doesn't compare to this. Oh, it certainly feels nice to be clean again. 
T'POL: It is pleasant. 
HOSHI: Do you smell that? 
T'POL: I don't smell anything. 
HOSHI: Exactly. 

