Episode Number: 173
The Next Generation Transcripts - Transfigurations
Transfigurations
Stardate: 43957.2
Original Airdate: 4 Jun, 1990
Captain's Log, Stardate 43957.2. We are charting an unexplored star system within the Zeta Gelis cluster. This routine assignment has made for a refreshingly quiet time aboard the Enterprise. 
[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: That's her. 
WORF: Which one? 
LAFORGE: The one on the right. Don't stare. 
WORF: Why not? 
LAFORGE: Because she'll see. 
WORF: Good. You must let her see the fire in your eyes. 
LAFORGE: But what would I say? 
WORF: Words come later. It is the scent that first speaks of love. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Worf. That helps a lot. 
(A girl in a short skirt brings a couple of glasses back to the bar) 
CHRISTI: Hi, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Hi. 
CHRISTI: So, how have you been? 
LAFORGE: Good. I, er.
CHRISTI: How are things down in Engineering? 
LAFORGE: Fine. They, they've been fine. 
CHRISTI: Well, I'll see you around. 
(She leaves him, and he puts his head on the bar) 
WORF: I have much to teach you about women. 
RIKER [OC]: Mister La Forge, report to Transporter room three. 
[Corridor]
LAFORGE: What's this all about, Commander? 
RIKER: Sensors have discovered a small one-man spaceship crashed on the planet. 
CRUSHER: We're picked up life-signs, humanoid, very faint and fading. 
[Planet surface]
(A harsh, rocky place littered with bits of metal) 
DATA: Radiation levels within acceptable limits. 
(There is a man tumbled out the back of a shuttlecraft sized ship. The man has a badly burned face) 
LAFORGE: We can beam him out from under there, get him right up to Sickbay. 
CRUSHER: He's not stable enough for transport. There's damage to his brain stem, autonomic functions are failing. His heart needs active neurofeedback. It can't regulate itself. I need a volunteer. 
LAFORGE: Right here. 
CRUSHER: I'm going to hook your nervous systems to the tricorder. Your brain will regulate both systems. That should stabilise him long enough to get him up to the ship. 
CRUSHER: Take deep, regular breaths. If anything goes wrong I'll break the connection. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
(Something golden leaps from the injured man into Geordi's head via the neural thingummyjig) 
CRUSHER: Geordi! 
LAFORGE: I'm fine. No problem. 
CRUSHER: Transporter room, three to beam directly to Sickbay. 
[Sickbay - room four]
CRUSHER: Autonomic responses are still low. Begin cardiostimulation. Sixty cc's of inaprovaline. Massive infection is setting in. Use the protodynoplaser to stabilize his immune system. We need to design a virus that can infiltrate his cell structure and boost his ATP production. 
TEMPLE: (a female nurse) What about Commander La Forge. He's waiting in the diagnostic centre. 
CRUSHER: I need you to give him a full bioscan. See if there's any residual effect from that energy discharge during the neurolink. Keep his arm in cryogenic stasis until the vital signs are strong enough to begin surgical procedures. 
[Bridge]
(Picard is holding an oversized blue plastic bottle or tube) 
RIKER: From the size and shape of the wreckage, it appeared to be some kind of escape pod. Their control system was badly damaged, which is probably what caused the crash. 
PICARD: An escape pod? Then he couldn't have travelled very far. Mister Data, are there any other signs of ships in this area? 
DATA: I am picking up a scattering of debris in extended orbit around the planet. It reads as refined metals and other synthetic compounds. 
PICARD: The remains of a larger vessel. He must have left in the pod before the ship was destroyed. 
WORF: Sensors show trace elements in the debris that would indicate phaser fire was recently exchanged. 
PICARD: Were you able to salvage anything else from the escape pod? 
RIKER: This is all that was left from their computer system. 
PICARD: Mister Data, can you access it? 
DATA: It will take time, sir. Downloading this into our system will require fabrication of a matrix translator to emulate the alien's computer system. 
PICARD: Keep me apprised of your progress. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
[Sickbay - room four]
TEMPLE: Limb re-fusion appears to be successful, Doctor. Tissue oxygenation is within norms. 
CRUSHER: That's all we can do for now. We won't be able to test neuromuscular function for a few days. 
(Geordi enters) 
CRUSHER: Ah, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Can I go now, Doc? 
CRUSHER: No need to keep you here. Your bioscan came out negative. 
LAFORGE: Could've told you that. I feel great. 
(Geordi leaves as Picard enters) 
PICARD: How's your patient? 
CRUSHER: I never thought he'd make it this far. There was major trauma to his head and chest cavity, massive plasma loss, and severe damage to most of his organs. 
PICARD: What are his chances? 
CRUSHER: I believe he's going to live. I'm afraid I can't take the credit for it, though. His body seems to have amazing recuperative powers. The damaged tissue seems to be repairing itself at a phenomenal rate. There's one thing that troubles me though. 
PICARD: What's that? 
CRUSHER: Take a look at this. 
(She pulls up a large wall display of green things running through blood vessels) 
PICARD: Cell regeneration? 
CRUSHER: Yes. The thing is, it has nothing to do with the injuries. These are undamaged cells that seem to be mutating. 
PICARD: Do you have a theory as to the cause? 
CRUSHER: No. I've never seen anything like it in my life. There is a possibility that it's part of his natural healing process. I hope it is, because there's nothing I can do to stop it. 
[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: I'm telling you Data, there's got to be some way to decode the information in this thing. 
DATA: I agree Geordi. But the data matrix within the capsule does not correspond to any standard format. All we have been able to determine is that the device contains a chemically based system for molecular energy encoding. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, and the computer still can't analyse the specific chemical elements involved. It's got to be part of the data processing system. What if it's a feedback loop controller? 
DATA: The compact shape does suggest a rapid chemical processing and storage capacity. 
LAFORGE: We found it near the escape pod's instrumentation assemblage. This capsule might process the ship's dynamic motions and augment its manual control inputs. We could send it a few test signals, make it think the entire assemblage was awake and operating. 
DATA: An intriguing experiment. The capsule might provide us with information without the need to decode the storage medium itself. Perhaps we should examine your theory immediately. 
WORF: Less talk, more synthahol. We came here to relax. 
LAFORGE: I am relaxed. In fact, I've never felt better. But you know, Worf, you're right. The storage capsule can wait awhile. 
(He goes over to the object of his earlier failed attentions) 
LAFORGE: Christi, you're not leaving, are you? 
CHRISTI: I was just on my way down to the arboretum. 
LAFORGE: Would you care for some company? 
CHRISTI: I'd love some, but I didn't think you were interested in that kind of thing. 
LAFORGE: There are a lot of things you don't know about me. 
(Geordi and Christi leave) 
WORF: I've been tutoring him. He learns very quickly. 
Medical Log, Stardate 43958.8. I have removed patient John Doe from the emergency bio-support unit. In just thirty six hours, most of his major organ systems have regenerated themselves to the point where they can now function on their own. 
[Sickbay - intensive care]
JOHN: I am alive? 
CRUSHER: You certainly are. 
JOHN: Thank you for my life. Tell me, who am I? 
Captain's log, stardate 43960.6. Our mission to map the Zeta Gelis star cluster is proceeding on schedule. Meanwhile, Doctor Crusher reports that the recovery of the patient she has named John Doe continues at a remarkable pace. 
[Sickbay - room four]
(John is receiving laser therapy for his arms) 
CRUSHER: Are you experiencing any discomfort? 
JOHN: None. I can feel the life returning to my body. 
CRUSHER: Your neurofibre waves are functioning almost normally again. That puts you about six weeks ahead of my original schedule. 
JOHN: That should give you and your colleagues something to talk about. 
CRUSHER: You are all we've talked about since your arrival. 
JOHN: I believe I'm ready for the next phase of my treatment. 
CRUSHER: You are right. It is time you stopped taking up valuable bed space. Now these motor-assist bands will provide you with electrical stimulation for your arms and legs. They will help you re-learn how to control your muscles again. But remember, you've been off your feet for almost a month, so don't be disappointed if at first your mobility is restricted. Your limbs are still weak. 
JOHN: I appreciate your concern, Doctor, but I think I may surprise you again. I feel strong enough to fly. 
(He stands, takes one step forward and gently folds into Crushers arms) 
CRUSHER: Whoops. 
JOHN: Perhaps I should concentrate on walking first. 
CRUSHER: Let's try again, a little more slowly this time. 
JOHN: Much more slowly. 
(He totters around the room as Picard enters, then falls over again as he reaches them. Picard catches him this time) 
JOHN: I envy your reflexes, Captain. 
PICARD: I envy your strength of will. Doctor Crusher has been keeping me informed of your progress. It's quite extraordinary. 
JOHN: I have an extraordinary doctor. She gave me back my life. I hope that I am worthy of her efforts. 
PICARD: Are you still unable to recall anything about your past? 
JOHN: Unfortunately, Captain, my memories begin the moment I woke up in Sickbay. Doctor Crusher told me you think I was in some kind of battle. PICARD: I'm quite sure of that. Have you any idea how you came to be in that escape pod, or what happened to the ship? 
JOHN: No. Believe me, Captain, it's a horrible feeling not knowing who you are or where you're from. 
PICARD: Have you tried synaptic induction? 
CRUSHER: His neural nets don't conform to any known patterns. Conventional neurotherapy has proven ineffective. Hopefully, in time, his memory pathways will reestablish themselves naturally. 
(John winces) 
CRUSHER: That same pain? 
JOHN: Yes. I think I've made enough progress for one day. 
PICARD: Not a relapse I hope. 
CRUSHER: This is nothing to do with his previous wounds. I think this has something to do with the continuing mutation of his cell structure. 
PICARD: You still have no theory as to what's causing it? 
CRUSHER: It doesn't make any sense. 
JOHN: I seem to be a mystery, Doctor. To you and to myself. 
[Turbolift]
(The doors open to reveal Christi and Geordi kissing. Riker, waiting in the corridor, coughs) 
CHRISTI: Well, this is where I get off. See you tonight in Ten Forward? 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'll be there. 
CHRISTI: Hello, Commander. 
RIKER: Miss Henshaw. 
(Christi leaves and Riker enters the turbolift) 
RIKER: Bridge. 
LAFORGE: Deck six. 
RIKER: So, you and Miss Henshaw have been seeing a lot of each other. 
LAFORGE: Every night this week. 
RIKER: Is that all? I thought you'd been walking around with that smile on your face a lot longer than that. 
LAFORGE: I guess I have. This whole last month or so everything seems to be going my way. I don't know what it is, but something sure has changed around here. 
RIKER: The only thing that's changed is you. 
LAFORGE: Me? I'm the same old guy I always was. 
RIKER: If you say so. I don't remember the old Geordi having that much success with Miss Christi Henshaw. 
LAFORGE: Well, maybe I am a little bit more confident than I used to be. 
[Sickbay]
(O'Brien enters, wearing a wetsuit and clutching his arm) 
CRUSHER: What happened to you? 
O'BRIEN: I was kayaking in the holodeck again. 
CRUSHER: You dislocated your shoulder. Sit down, I'll get the osteotractor frame. 
WESLEY: Hi mom. We still on for dinner tonight? 
CRUSHER: Seven thirty sharp. I'll be right back. 
WESLEY: Kayaking again? 
O'BRIEN: Yeah. 
WESLEY: How's my mom's favourite patient? 
JOHN: Judge for yourself. 
(John walks around unaided) 
WESLEY: Not bad. 
JOHN: Your mom promised me a tour of the ship tomorrow. You may find this hard to believe, but Sickbay can be an incredibly boring place to be. 
O'BRIEN: Hey, Doc! I'm dying here. 
JOHN: Don't worry my friend. You'll be alright. 
(Beverly returns to see John put his hand on O'Brien's shoulder. There's a golden glow) 
O'BRIEN: The pain's gone. 
CRUSHER: It's completely healed. I don't understand. What did you do? 
JOHN: I don't know. It was instinct. I just touched him. 
[Crushers' quarters]
(After dinner) 
CRUSHER: I've run every test and scan on him that I can think of, and yet there's no physiological evidence to indicate that he would possess such powers. But then, there's so much about John that's a mystery. 
WESLEY: You know, I really like him. 
CRUSHER: He does have a certain charm doesn't he? The entire medical staff has commented on it. 
WESLEY: You seem a little taken with him yourself. 
CRUSHER: He has a strength and serenity that I find very attractive. And yet he's vulnerable. I guess I find him intriguing. 
WESLEY: Seems like there's a little more to it than that. 
CRUSHER: Is this your way of asking me if I'm getting romantically involved with him? 
WESLEY: You said it, I didn't. 
CRUSHER: My feelings toward him aren't romantic exactly. I mean, I know that the doctor-patient relationship can sometimes create a false sense of intimacy, but this is different. There's an almost spiritual connection. I guess I'm not making any sense, am I? 
WESLEY: I think I understand. 
[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Data, I was thinking about the storage capsule last night and I was wondering, what if we've been going about this thing the wrong way? We've been trying to analyse its mechanical properties. What if it is a biochemical storage medium? 
DATA: Are you suggesting that it employs memory RNA like an organic cell? 
LAFORGE: Well, it does contain quantities of nucleic acids. 
DATA: Perhaps the information sequences are encoded in the molecular patterns themselves. 
LAFORGE: Computer, scan the storage capsule. Analyse molecular sequences on nucleic acid chains. 
(and on the science station screen appears -) 
LAFORGE: Well. what do you know. A navigational chart. 
DATA: It appears that your hypothesis was correct, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: I knew it. Captain? 
PICARD: Found something? 
DATA: We have determined that the storage cube from John Doe's escape pod contains navigational information. 
PICARD: Can you match these stars to our charts? 
DATA: Computer, run transformational matrix calculations. Match navigational referents to known stars in this sector. 
COMPUTER: Information on this sector is incomplete. No correlation. 
LAFORGE: I'm not giving up yet. Not after coming so close to cracking this thing. You know, that might be flight path information from John's ship, but without a frame of reference, I can't determine its origin points. 
DATA: Computer, assume those paths are course corrections and derive gravitational values for stellar objects near those flight paths. 
DATA: Most of these are ordinary G-type stars. This would appear to be a neutron star, possibly a pulsar. 
LAFORGE: Which means that this might be a rotational time reference. 
DATA: Computer, assume these symbols are pulsars. Translate associated values into standard temporal notations. Computer, is there a pulsar with a rotational period of one point five two four four seconds within sensor range? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
LAFORGE: Bingo! Now, Computer, overlay navigational chart using referenced pulsars and project a flight path back to it's origin. 
COMPUTER: Flight path originated at bearing zero zero three, mark zero one five. Distance, two point three parsecs. 
LAFORGE: That's it, Captain. That's where John Doe came from. 
DATA: That bearing is almost directly along our planned course, sir. 
PICARD: Good. Then we can continue our mission without significant interruption. 
[Sickbay - room four]
JOHN: Home? 
PICARD: Yes. Using the information we found in your escape pod, we may be able to return you to your people. 
JOHN: I cannot go back. 
PICARD: Why is that? 
JOHN: You must not take me home, Captain. 
CRUSHER: John, your memory, has it returned? 
JOHN: All I know is that we came out here to escape. 
PICARD: Escape? 
CRUSHER: There were others with you? 
JOHN: Yes, I was not alone. But what happened to the others, or what we were escaping from, I cannot remember. But I do know you must not take me back. Not yet. 
PICARD: We will not arrive in your star system for at least three weeks. That will give us plenty of time to discuss this further. 
CRUSHER: Hopefully, by then you will have regained more of your memory. 
JOHN: You're right, of course, Captain. I apologise for my outburst. 
PICARD: It's understandable. 
(Picard and Beverly leave, and John has another golden glow moment) 
[Ten Forward]
JOHN: This ship is astounding. It seems to stretch on without end. 
CRUSHER: We can see the rest of it some other time. This is your first day out of Sickbay and I don't want you to overexert yourself. 
JOHN: This looks like an ideal place to rest. 
CRUSHER: My thoughts exactly. 
JOHN: Truly remarkable. 
CRUSHER: What is? 
JOHN: These people. They're all so different from one another yet they work together freely. 
CRUSHER: That surprises you? 
JOHN: It is new to me. My people are different somehow. If only I could remember. Yesterday, for one terrifying moment, there was clarity. 
CRUSHER: You mean the energy pulse? 
JOHN: Yes. For that moment my purpose seemed clear, and then it was gone. 
CRUSHER: The pain, the energy pulse, must be linked to the cell mutation in the body. I wish I could help you find the truth. 
JOHN: Beverly, you've done so much for me. I only wish there was some way I could repay you. 
CRUSHER: But you have. The friendship we've developed has made me very happy. 
JOHN: The rapport that exists between us also means a great deal to me. But I am on some kind of journey. Whatever brought me here, whatever is happening to my body, is all part of that journey. And I must complete it before any other consideration. 
[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, I am reading a vessel on long range scanners. It is coming from sector nine five six nine. 
PICARD: What configuration? 
WORF: Impossible to identify at this distance. However, it is on an intercept course. 
DATA: Captain, the ship is travelling at warp nine point seven two. 
RIKER: Warp nine point seven two? 
PICARD: Time to intercept? 
DATA: At present course and speed, ten hours fifty three minutes. 
PICARD: Try and hail them, Mister Worf. 
WORF: No response, Captain. 
PICARD: Keep monitoring their approach. Repeat the hail every half an hour. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Whoever they are, they're in a big hurry to get here. 
[Sickbay - room four]
(John has a big golden moment, and the alarm sounds) 
TEMPLE: Doctor Crusher, medical emergency, room four. 
JOHN: I can't make it stop. 
CRUSHER: John, tell me. Is it worse than before? 
JOHN: Much worse. 
TEMPLE: Should I get something for the pain? 
CRUSHER: No. The readings are fluctuating too wildly. Besides, it wouldn't do any good. His entire cell structure is transforming. 
JOHN: I have to leave, Beverly. 
CRUSHER: John, where do you have to go? 
JOHN: I must get off this ship. 
CRUSHER: That's impossible. Not in your condition. 
JOHN: I must! 
(another big moment, and he runs out the door) 
[Corridor]
CRUSHER: Security. 
[Shuttlebay]
(Two engineers are working on the El-Baz) 
LAFORGE: Okay, let's realign the magnetic inducer on the starboard nacelle. 
(John appears in the control gallery. Beverly, Worf and two guards enter the main bay) 
CRUSHER: John! 
WORF: Leave the control booth immediately! 
(Worf goes up to the gallery as John succeeds in opening the bay doors) 
CRUSHER: John, listen to me. You must come down. I'll try to help you. 
WORF: Step away from the controls. 
JOHN: Get back. Please, stay away. 
WORF: I have no wish to harm you, but you must return to Sickbay immediately. 
JOHN: No. Do not come any closer. I cannot control over what is happening to me. 
(There is a massive golden glow that is bigger than John and pushes Worf over the railing) 
CRUSHER: His neck is broken. No life signs. Sickbay, form a resuscitation team. I have a code seven in shuttlebay two. Transporter room, stand by. 
SECURITY: Hold it. 
CRUSHER: No, don't. 
(John has come down. He sends a glow through Worf, who comes back to life) 
CRUSHER: Hold still. 
LAFORGE: Doc. 
CRUSHER: I can't believe it. There's no trace of injury. 
[Ready room]
(John is stiff and uncomfortable on a chair) 
PICARD: You admit you were trying to steal a shuttlecraft. 
JOHN: Yes. 
PICARD: So I ask you again, why? 
JOHN: I don't know. 
PICARD: Unacceptable. You had a reason. I want to know what it was. Damn it, you nearly killed a member of my crew. 
CRUSHER: And healed him. 
PICARD: I'm not forgetting that. That's the reason he's here and not in the brig. 
JOHN: I warned him. I told him it was dangerous. 
PICARD: Why? Why was it dangerous? What is happening to you? 
JOHN: I don't know. 
CRUSHER: The rate of metamorphosis is accelerating. It's almost as if your body were generating an electrical field that's warping the tissue. 
PICARD: Who are you? What are you? 
JOHN: I'm afraid. For myself. For all of you. I have to get away. Isolate myself. Whatever is happening to me, it's dangerous. 
PICARD: As Lieutenant Worf discovered. 
JOHN: I don't want to hurt anyone. Captain, for the sake of your crew, let me go before this happens again. 
CRUSHER: John, I don't believe you're capable of harming any 
DATA [OC]: Captain, the alien vessel is coming within weapons range. Its shields are up. 
PICARD: I'm on my way. I want him kept under constant surveillance. 
[Bridge]
LAFORGE: John, I really want to thank you. 
JOHN: For what? 
LAFORGE: I don't know how, or even why, but down on the planet you gave me something. A new confidence. 
JOHN: I doubt I can take credit for that. Perhaps I only helped you find something you already had. 
DATA: Captain, on screen. Alien vessel approaching at half impulse, sir. Heading zero five one mark one one four. 
PICARD: Raise shields. Slow to one third impulse power. Bring us to one zero three mark zero two five. Mister Worf, hail the alien vessel. 
WORF: They continue to ignore our hails, sir. 
DATA: They are scanning us, Captain. 
WORF: They are answering our hail, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
JOHN: Sunad. 
(mute) 
PICARD: You know him? 
JOHN: Yes. I don't know how, but he's dangerous. 
(resume) 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: I am Commander Sunad of Zalkon. You are trespassing into our space and you are holding a Zalkonian citizen. 
PICARD: I'm Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the United Federation of Planets. We do not intend transgression of 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: You will return him to us immediately. 
PICARD: Sunad, this individual is a guest aboard our ship. We found him dying in a shipwreck. We returned him to health. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Then you aided a criminal. He is one of four escaped prisoners. We eliminated the other three. We thought this one dead as well. Return him so we may complete our task. 
PICARD: Of what is he accused? 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: He is a disruptive influence. He spreads lies. He encourages dissent. He disturbs the natural order of our society. 
PICARD: In what way? 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: It is not your concern. I will give you two hours to comply. 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: Tactical analysis. 
WORF: The Zalkonian ship has a formidable armament. Their weaponry is comparable to ours. 
LAFORGE: They're as fast and probably just as manoeuvrable. 
PICARD: Counsellor, do they mean to carry out their threat? 
TROI: I believe so. Sunad's hatred for John was evident but there's something else. The Zalkonians are afraid of John. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, Counsellor, Doctor. John, I want you to join us. Mister Data, you have the Bridge. Mister Worf stay at Tactical. Counter any moves the Zalkonian makes. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Observation lounge]
JOHN: I can neither confirm nor deny what the Zalkonians told you. 
PICARD: They make serious accusations against you. 
JOHN: Their accusations may be true. I don't know. I don't believe that I am a criminal. 
PICARD: You understand the difficult position in which I'm placed. 
JOHN: Completely, and I refuse to place your ship in danger. If necessary, I will surrender to them. But I am convinced there's more at stake here than my life. There's something important I must complete. My survival is vital. If I could explain it, I would. 
PICARD: I'll inform you of my decision shortly. 
(John leaves) 
CRUSHER: Captain, you can't seriously be considering 
PICARD: We must consider all options, Doctor, and not let our personal feelings impede our judgment. 
CRUSHER: You're going to tell me it's irrelevant that we'd be sending him to his death. 
PICARD: Whether we approve of the Zalkonians' intentions is not the issue. But for what it's worth, I believe John is correct that his existence has broader ramifications than that of a simple criminal. 
TROI: Sunad thinks so. He feels personally threatened by John. 
CRUSHER: Sunad called John a disruptive influence. That's hardly a capital offence. 
PICARD: It's not up to us to judge their laws, Doctor. 
RIKER: I know how I would feel if the situation were reversed, if they were in our territory holding a Federation citizen. 
TROI: The Zalkonians truly don't understand our indecision about returning John. In their eyes, we shouldn't even be involved. 
CRUSHER: But we are involved. I saved his life. For what? So that they could chase him down and take away that life away? 
[Bridge]
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Picard, we will not tolerate more delays. 
PICARD: Commander, let me remind you we are on a mission of exploration. Our purpose is to establish peaceful relations with the civilisations we encounter. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: We do not want relations with you. 
PICARD: If that is your wish, we will respect it. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: We simply want you to leave Zalkonian space as soon as you return the criminal. 
PICARD: Commander, we will leave. It is not our policy to intervene in the affairs of other cultures. But before I return the survivor to you, I would appreciate a more detailed explanation of what he has done to merit a death sentence. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: As I said. it is not your concern. 
PICARD: Agreed. However, there are circumstances of which you may be unaware. The survivor has suffered a memory loss. He's therefore ill-equipped to defend himself against your accusations. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: There is no defence. Our judgment is final. 
PICARD: There's something else. Since his recovery, he's manifested unusual abilities. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: What kind of abilities? 
PICARD: He apparently has the power to heal injuries with a simple touch. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Lies. 
PICARD: And even to reverse death itself. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Obviously he has corrupted you as well. I see I am wasting my time. 
(all over the ship, people find they cannot breathe) 
[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: I can't breathe. 
(He gives her the golden glow) 
JOHN: It's come back to me, Beverly. I know who I am. What I am. 
[Corridor]
(John heals a crewman lying on the floor, then transmits his golden glow through the computer interface to the entire ship) 
[Bridge]
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Ready all weapons. 
JOHN: You will no longer harm these people, Sunad. 
SUNAD [on viewscreen]: Fire upon that ship. 
(John transports Sunad to the Enterprise) 
JOHN: Do not be afraid. I won't hurt you. 
SUNAD: Kill him, Captain. He's evil. 
JOHN: You could learn from these people, Sunad. They do not fear me. 
SUNAD: They don't know how dangerous you are, you and the others like you. 
JOHN: That is what you and the other leaders have maintained for generations, but it is not true. Captain, my species is on the verge of a wondrous evolutionary change. A transmutation beyond our physical being. I am the first of my kind to approach this metamorphosis. They tried to convince us it was a sickness we would never survive, that the pain and energy pulses would kill us. They claimed we were dangerous so they destroyed anyone who exhibited the signs of the transfiguration. 
SUNAD: We were protecting our society. 
JOHN: By murdering us? You saw the mutations as a threat to your authority. You were terrified of something you couldn't understand. Some suspected that what was happening to them was not evil. Four of us decided to flee Zalkon and let the metamorphosis take its course. You hunted us down, killed the others, but I survived with the help of a kind and generous people. 
(John turns into a golden glowing man) 
JOHN: There is nothing to fear. You can join me. All Zalkonians can. Let me show you. 
SUNAD: Don't touch me! 
JOHN: As you wish. But others will listen now that you can no longer prevent me from telling them the truth. Those who are willing will follow me. 
WORF: Sunad is back aboard the Zalkonian vessel, Captain. 
(The ship leaves) 
JOHN: My people are about to embark upon a new realm, a new plane of existence, thanks to you. 
PICARD: It is our mission to seek out life in all forms. We are privileged to have been present at the emergence of a new species. 
JOHN: Beverly, you gave me life and more. I do not have the words for my gratitude nor my sorrow at leaving you. 
(He strokes her cheek, turns into a ball of energy and flies out through the ceiling into space) 

