Episode Number: 267
The Next Generation Transcripts - Lower Decks
Lower Decks
Stardate: 47566.7
Original Airdate: 7 Feb, 1994
[Ten Forward]
(a waiter is listening in on the conversation) 
RIKER: Fletcher has more experience with propulsion systems. 
TROI: But Carstairs is better with people. Considering this is a supervisory position, I'd go with her. 
RIKER: I guess you're right. Didn't we just do crew evaluation reports? 
TROI: Three months ago. 
RIKER: It seems like three weeks. Why don't we just give everybody a promotion and call it a night, Commander? 
TROI: Fine with me, Captain. 
RIKER: Could we have two coffees, please. 
(at another table, four young people hear Troi's laughter) 
LAVELLE: (red uniform) What could be so funny? What's so funny about crew evaluations? 
OGAWA: Don't worry about it, Sam. 
SITO: (gold, Bajoran) Can't we just try and have a good time here? 
LAVELLE: How can I have a good time when my career's being decided across the room? Come on. Think promotion. Promotion. Promotion. 
TAURIK: (a vulcan) You can't really believe that what you are doing will influence the outcome of your evaluation. 
(actually, he will become Vaurik of Voyager) 
LAVELLE: Promotion. Promotion. Promotion. 
OGAWA: It's a time-honoured strategy, Taurik. 
SITO: The Vedeks of the Janalan order maintain a round the clock chant for the benefit of the Bajoran people. 
TAURIK: Considering the history of your planet, that doesn't exactly validate what he's doing. 
LAVELLE: Promote me, please, so I can make Lieutenant and have my own room. 
TAURIK: If you're unhappy sharing quarters with me, then you should put in for a new room assignment. Just in case you're not promoted. 
(the waiter brings coffee) 
RIKER: I've been thinking about who to promote to Ops. 
TROI: The new night duty officer? 
RIKER: Lavelle is an obvious candidate, but I'm also considering Ensign Sito. 
TROI: Thank you. 
BEN: You're welcome. Are you sure about dessert? 
TROI: Yes. Don't tempt me. 
(the waiter goes to the other table) 
LAVELLE: So, are they working on crew evaluations? 
BEN: Yep. 
SITO: Who are they talking about? 
BEN: It's not my place to say. 
SITO: Come on, Ben. 
LAVELLE: Please. 
BEN: All right, but I'm not sure you two are going to like it. Apparently, you two are up for the same job. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Lock phasers on target. 
SITO: Phasers locked. 
DATA: The enemy is firing. 
RIKER: Helm, hard to starboard. 
LAVELLE: Hard to starboard. 
RIKER: Fire phasers. 
(a pause as she finds the right buttons) 
SITO: Firing. 
DATA: Target is destroyed. 
RIKER: End simulation sequence. Secure from drill. Alpha shift, your response time was seven percent slower than the gamma shift. All departments, submit drill evaluation reports 
[Engineering]
RIKER [OC]: By oh nine hundred hours. 
LAFORGE: Ensign, you'll write that report. 
TAURIK: Yes, sir. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: What happened back there, Ensign? 
SITO: I'm sorry, sir. When we changed course I had to re-lock phasers before I could fire. 
RIKER: Next time, try letting the locking relay float until the actual order to fire is given. They may not teach that trick at the Academy, but it works. 
SITO: Thank you, sir. 
RIKER: Lavelle. 
LAVELLE: Sir? 
RIKER: Resume previous course and speed. 
LAVELLE: Aye, aye, sir. 
RIKER: One aye is sufficient acknowledgment, Ensign. 
(Picard enters) 
PICARD: Helm, change course for the Argaya system, maximum warp. 
LAVELLE: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: What happened to the rendezvous with the Clement? 
PICARD: I've just received new orders from Starfleet. We'll discuss it in the Observation lounge. Mister Data, Mister Worf. 
RIKER: Ensign Sito, take over at Ops. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
(Riker, Data, Worf and Picard leave) 
SITO: The Argaya system's close to the Cardassian border. I wonder why we're going there. How'd you like to be a spider under that table? 
LAVELLE: What? 
SITO: A spider under the table. 
LAVELLE: Is that like a fly on the wall? 
SITO: I guess so. You did really well during the drill. 
LAVELLE: Well apparently Commander Riker didn't think so. I swear he's got it in for me. 
SITO: You're imagining things. 
LAVELLE: Yeah? Then how come you're sitting in that chair instead of me? 
SITO: I guess he figured I need more practice than you do. 
[Engineering]
TAURIK: Excuse me, sir. Do you have a minute? 
LAFORGE: Sure, Taurik. What is it? 
TAURIK: I'd like you to take a look at something. 
LAFORGE: Have you been improvising again, Ensign? 
TAURIK: In a manner of speaking. I'm running a computer simulation to test a new warp field configuration. 
LAFORGE: You've got a problem here. Your plasma flow to the nacelles is out of sync. 
TAURIK: Actually, sir, that was done deliberately. As you can see, this configuration has increased overall warp field integrity by seven percent. 
LAFORGE: You're right. 
TAURIK: Doctor Nils Diaz has been experimenting with this technique at the Tanaline Propulsion Laboratory. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, I'm familiar with his work, but I never heard anything about this. 
TAURIK: His findings have not been released yet. I was able to review a preliminary report when I was at the Academy. 
LAFORGE: I look forward to reading about it 
TAURIK: I predict that when these findings are made public, they will become a new model for warp field operation. 
LAFORGE: Sounds interesting. 
TAURIK: With your permission, sir, I'd like to begin tests to see if the technique can be adapted to our warp drive. 
LAFORGE: There might be variables that you didn't account for. 
TAURIK: I was quite thorough. 
LAFORGE: I'm sure you were, but I'd still need to see your simulation before I authorise any tests. 
TAURIK: As you wish. 
LAFORGE: If you have any other ideas for increasing efficiency, don't hesitate to run them by me. 
TAURIK: As a matter of fact, sir, I do. When would be a good time to discuss them? 
LAFORGE: I'll get back to you on that. 
[Crusher's office]
OGAWA: Excuse me, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: If you're wondering about the evaluations, things couldn't be better. 
OGAWA: Actually, I just wanted to tell you that Ensign Reilly's condition is showing improvement. But thank you. 
CRUSHER: In fact, I'm recommending you for a promotion. How does Lieutenant Alyssa Ogawa sound? 
OGAWA: It sounds wonderful. 
CRUSHER: I'll talk to Commander Riker and I'm sure it'll be official as soon as the current crew evaluations are over. Oh, Alyssa, how are things going between you and Lieutenant Powell? 
OGAWA: Fine. I think. 
CRUSHER: You think? 
OGAWA: I'm sure it's nothing, but he seems preoccupied lately. Last night he had to cancel our date. 
CRUSHER: I see. 
OGAWA: He's been putting together a research proposal. He's been really busy with it. 
CRUSHER: I know what that's like. Sometimes I get so busy with research I forget to eat. 
OGAWA: I just wonder. 
CRUSHER: What? Sit down. 
OGAWA: I've never met anyone like Andrew. It's as though we've known each other forever. 
CRUSHER: You do seem very well suited. 
OGAWA: But I know that in the beginning of a romance it's possible to be a little blind. 
CRUSHER: I'm not sure I know what you mean. 
OGAWA: Well, cancelling a date like that, the way he's been so distant lately. Doctor, do you think those could be warning signs that he's losing interest? 
CRUSHER: Alyssa, I think you're overreacting. 
OGAWA: Maybe so. 
CRUSHER: If I cared as much about someone as much as you care about Andrew, he'd have to do a lot more than cancel a date before I'd get suspicious. 
OGAWA: You're right. 
CRUSHER: I'm sure that when this research is over, things will be back just the way they were. 
OGAWA: Except, of course, that he'll have to deal with Lieutenant Ogawa. 
[Ten Forward]
(at the bar) 
SITO: I only filled in at Ops for a half hour, but I had to degauss the main deflector dish, recalibrate the navigation grid, and use internal sensors to find a lost puppy. 
WORF: Ops is a very different challenge from Tactical. 
SITO: I can't figure out why I'm even being considered for this assignment. I'm a security officer. 
WORF: I recommended you. 
SITO: I'll try not to let you down, sir. 
(at a table) 
LAVELLE: What could they be talking about? 
TAURIK: Have you ever considered learning to lip read? 
LAVELLE: You think Worf's chewing her out? 
BEN: No, he always looks like that. 
LAVELLE: Maybe he's giving her pointers on how to land the Ops position. 
(Riker enters) 
BEN: Hi, Will. 
RIKER: Ben. (to bartender) How you doing? 
LAVELLE: You call him Will? 
BEN: Why not? 
LAVELLE: He's second in command of this ship, that's why not. 
BEN: I'm not Starfleet, I'm a civilian. When he's in here, he wants to be treated like a civilian. 
LAVELLE: Riker? I bet he sleeps in his uniform. 
BEN: You only think that because he's your CO. If you got to know him. 
LAVELLE: Right. 
TAURIK: He's convinced Commander Riker doesn't like him. 
BEN: Why? Did you crash the ship into something? 
LAVELLE: No. He just doesn't like me. 
TAURIK: He doesn't even know you. 
BEN: That's right. You should go talk to him. 
LAVELLE: About what? 
TAURIK: Perhaps something you have in common. 
BEN: He likes Jazz, poker. He's Canadian. 
LAVELLE: Yeah? My grandfather was from Canada. 
BEN: There you go. 
SITO: Hi. 
LAVELLE: Excuse me, I've got to go talk to somebody. 
(at the bar) 
LAVELLE: Good evening, sir. 
RIKER: Lavelle. Something I can do for you? 
LAVELLE: No, sir. I just came to get another drink. 
RIKER: Is there something wrong with that one? 
LAVELLE: No, actually, I, er. What are you having? 
RIKER: Trakian Ale. 
LAVELLE: Good choice. I'll have one, too. My grandfather was Canadian, you know. 
RIKER: Really? 
LAVELLE: Aren't you one, too? 
RIKER: A grandfather? 
LAVELLE: No, Canadian, sir. Canadian. 
RIKER: No, I grew up in Alaska. 
LAVELLE: Oh. Well, they both get a lot of snow. 
RIKER: Yeah. 
LAVELLE: It was good talking to you, sir. 
(Lavelle leaves) 
BARTENDER: Your ale, Ensign. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: We're holding position in the Argaya System. 
PICARD: Anything? 
WORF: No, sir. I detect no vessels in the vicinity. 
PICARD: How close to the Cardassian border are we? 
DATA: Less than five thousand kilometres, sir. 
WORF: Sir, I am detecting an object five metres in length. It appears to be an escape pod. 
RIKER: They must have been forced to abandon the ship. 
PICARD: How far inside Cardassian space is it? 
WORF: Fifty thousand kilometres. 
PICARD: How the hell are we going to get it out of there? 
DATA: Sir, the pod's life support system is failing. 
RIKER: Notify Doctor Crusher. 
PICARD: Can we get within transporter range without crossing into Cardassian territory? 
DATA: We would need to boost the gain on the confinement beam by at least seven percent. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge? 
[Engineering]
LAFORGE: I'm on it, Captain. There, try that. 
TAURIK: The pod is still too far away. 
LAFORGE: I'm going to try augmenting the frequency spread. 
TAURIK: Bio readings indicate that passenger's humanoid. Attempting life form identification. 
LAFORGE: No one told you to do that, Ensign. Let's just get him aboard safely. There, that should do it. 
TAURIK: Confinement beam's at one hundred nine percent of normal. 
LAFORGE: Transporter room, you should be able to get a lock now. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Sickbay]
PICARD [OC]: Doctor Crusher, are you ready? 
CRUSHER: Stand by. Alyssa, I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to leave now. 
OGAWA: All right, Doctor. 
(Alyssa leaves) 
CRUSHER: Transporter room. go ahead. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Corridor]
(Sito is standing guard) 
OGAWA: What are you doing here? 
SITO: I'm not supposed to let anyone but the senior officers inside Sickbay. 
OGAWA: Do you have any idea what's going on? 
SITO: No, do you? 
OGAWA: I'd better go. 
(Alyssa leaves as Picard arrives) 
PICARD: Ensign. 
SITO: Sir. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Twelve hundred hours. Alpha shift is relieved. 
LAVELLE: Excuse me, sir. If you don't mind, I'd like to stay on for another shift. I could use the training. 
RIKER: Now's not the best time. 
LAVELLE: Yes, sir. 
[Outside Sickbay]
PICARD: Ensign, you're with me. 
[Turbolift]
PICARD: Bridge. You are a certified pilot, Ensign? 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
[Ready room]
PICARD: How long have you served on board the Enterprise, Ensign? 
SITO: Seven months, sir. 
PICARD: I see I understand that you've been recommended for the Ops position. Do you think you're up to it? 
SITO: I do, sir. 
PICARD: I'm not so sure. I'm concerned about your record. 
SITO: Sir? 
PICARD: 
The incident that you were involved in at the Academy
. 
SITO: With all due respect that was three years ago. My record since then 
PICARD: It doesn't matter how long ago it was, Ensign. Would you do something like that again? 
SITO: I can assure you, sir, that I would never, never jeopardise lives by participating in 
PICARD: A dare devil stunt? I would certainly hope not. What concerns me is that you participated in a cover-up that impeded an official investigation into the death of a cadet. 
SITO: Sir, I know I should have told the truth right from the start 
PICARD: Yes you should, but you didn't. Instead you joined with the others to pretended that was simply an accident. Now, what do you think that tells me about your character? 
SITO: Sir, if you had any idea what it was like after that incident. I didn't have any friends. I didn't have anyone to talk to. I had to take my flight test with the instructor because no one else would be my partner. In a lot of ways it would have been easier to just walk away, but I didn't. I stuck with it. Doesn't that say something about my character, too? 
PICARD: Well I'm really very sorry you didn't enjoy your time at the Academy, Ensign. As far as I'm concerned, you should have been expelled for what you did. Quite frankly, I don't know how you made it on board this ship. You're dismissed. 
[Shuttlebay]
(Taurik is firing a laser rifle at shuttlecraft Curie from the gantry) 
LAFORGE: Another two seconds. Okay, that's enough. 
TAURIK: Sir, I'm a little puzzled. Why are we intentionally damaging the shuttlecraft? 
LAFORGE: We're evaluating hull resiliency. Starfleet requires periodic testing. 
TAURIK: I see. I don't believe I'm familiar with that requirement. 
LAFORGE: Probably because you're not a senior officer. 
TAURIK: If you wish, I could reconfigure the phaser to fire a low intensity burst that would not harm the shuttle's hull. The test procedure would not be affected. 
LAFORGE: It's fine the way it is. Now, give me another burst, about four seconds, right here. 
TAURIK: Do you want me to fire from this position? 
LAFORGE: Actually, why don't you do it from over here. 
TAURIK: That would be consistent. 
LAFORGE: Consistent with what? 
TAURIK: With making it appear that this shuttle had fled an attack. 
LAFORGE: What makes you think that's what we're doing? 
TAURIK: The pattern of fire you have asked for is similar to what might result if the shuttle had fled an attacker while engaging in evasive manoeuvres. 
LAFORGE: It's an amazing coincidence. 
TAURIK: Yes, sir. It is indeed. Shall we proceed with the testing? 
LAFORGE: Yes, Ensign. Thank you. 
[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Alyssa, thank you for coming so quickly. We have to prepare for surgery. We have a comatose patient with a subdural hematoma. 
OGAWA: Yes, sir. 
CRUSHER: I want to make it clear that you are not to discuss what you see here with anyone. 
OGAWA: I understand. 
(their patient is a spoon-head) 
CRUSHER: We'll need to synthesise at least a litre of Cardassian blood. 
[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
(five card stud game in progress) 
BEN: It's your bet, Taurik. What I can't understand is why we're just sitting here so close to the Cardassian border. 
LAVELLE: It must have something to do with that escape pod we picked up. Don't you think, Sito? 
SITO: Maybe. 
LAVELLE: I wonder who was in it? 
BEN: You know what I heard? It was Ambassador Spock. 
TAURIK: That is most unlikely. 
BEN: That's what I was told. 
TAURIK: By whom? 
BEN: I can't say. 
LAVELLE: They beamed whoever was in it right to Sickbay. Did you see anything when you went down there? 
OGAWA: No. Doctor Crusher just asked me to help her with the laboratory schedule. 
TAURIK: I thought Lieutenant Powell was going to join us tonight? 
OGAWA: He had to do a double shift. 
LAVELLE: That's too bad. He must be the worst poker player I've ever met. 
BEN: It's your bet, Sam. 
(with four clubs showing, Lavelle checks his hole card and grins) 
[Riker's quarters]
(another poker game) 
WORF: Twenty. 
CRUSHER: The thing is, I saw Powell in Ten Forward with another woman, and the way they were talking it made me wonder. 
TROI: Well, if he's seeing someone else he should tell Alyssa. I mean, it might hurt her now, but it would be better in the long run. 
RIKER: I've been meaning to talk to you about something, Mister Worf. I don't think Ensign Sito's prepared for the Ops position. 
WORF: Well, I must say I disagree, sir. 
LAFORGE: Counsellor. Pair of fours bets. 
RIKER: I'm listening. 
[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
BEN: The bet is fifty. 
TAURIK: It would be illogical for the Captain to deny you a promotion for something you did as a cadet. 
SITO: He said it shows I don't have character. 
OGAWA: What did you say? 
SITO: What could I say? Maybe he's right. 
LAVELLE: Hey, you're a damn fine officer and you deserve that post as much as anyone. One thing's for sure, I won't be getting it. Not if it's up to Riker. 
[Riker's quarters]
WORF: It is your decision, sir, but I am certain if you give Ensign Sito a chance to prove herself, she will not disappoint you. 
RIKER: Very well, I'll take her under consideration. Besides, I'm not convinced about Lavelle. 
TROI: Really? Why? 
RIKER: He's too eager to please. He's always trying to ingratiate himself to me. 
TROI: Why assume he's doing it that to get the job? 
LAFORGE: Fifty. 
RIKER: There's your fifty, and one hundred more. 
TROI: I don't know. It seems to me that you and Lavelle are a lot alike. 
RIKER: What? We're not at all alike. 
LAFORGE: You're bluffing. 
[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
LAVELLE: You think so? 
BEN: Yes, and I'm not going to let you get away with it. 
OGAWA: You know, Sam, maybe you shouldn't try so hard with Riker. It doesn't matter whether he likes you as long as he respects you. 
SITO: He must, otherwise he would not be considering you for the Ops position. 
LAVELLE: You're probably right. Maybe I'm just telling myself he hates me so that if I don't get promoted, I'll have an excuse. 
BEN: You in or not? 
TAURIK: At this juncture, the odds of my winning this hand are less than thirty nine to one. I fold. 
[Riker's quarters]
LAFORGE: The Commander's flush is still working. No help, Worf. Tens and deuces for the Doctor. And Jacks and fours for the Counsellor. Ah, three sixes. 
WORF: Fold. 
RIKER: Looks like it's just you and me. You going to go another fifty? 
LAFORGE: I'm thinking. Give me a second, here. 
TROI: Didn't you tell me that you took up poker so you could be the officer's game at the Potemkin? 
RIKER: I happen to like poker. 
TROI: But your senior officers might have thought you were trying to ingratiate yourself. I guess it's lucky that they realised you were young and inexperienced, and decided not to hold it against you. 
RIKER: Maybe I have been a little hard on Lavelle. 
WORF: I do not believe he is bluffing. 
LAFORGE: I do. There you go. What've you got? 
WORF: Flush. 
LAFORGE: I can't believe this. 
RIKER: I am your worst nightmare. 
[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
(Lavelle has sevens and sixes, and a queen) 
BEN: I knew it. 
LAVELLE: How could you tell I was bluffing? 
BEN: You don't really expect me to answer that, do you? 
SITO: Look, it's getting late. Maybe we should all get some sleep. 
BEN: One more hand. 
[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come on, Geordi. You don't have to quit just because I'm unbeatable? 
LAFORGE: Nah, there's something I need to do down in Engineering. I'll get you next time. 
RIKER: I'll be there. 
LAFORGE: Goodnight, everybody. 
TROI + CRUSHER: Goodnight. 
[Lavelle + Taurik's quarters]
SITO: Bye. 
LAVELLE: Goodnight. 
OGAWA: See you later. 
(Sito and Ogawa leave) 
TAURIK: What I find curious is that when Commander La Forge saw that the technique I was using was actually more efficient, he seemed annoyed. 
BEN: Of course he was. 
LAVELLE: He didn't like the fact that you knew something he didn't. 
TAURIK: Do you think I have irreparably damaged my relationship with him? 
LAVELLE: It depends on what kind of a guy he is. 
BEN: Ante up, gentlemen. 
(doorbell) LAVELLE: Come in. 
(La Forge enters) 
LAVELLE: Commander. 
LAFORGE: As you were. I just dropped by to see Taurik. 
TAURIK: What can I do for you, sir? 
LAFORGE: Well, I'm headed for Engineering to run those tests on the nacelles. Since you've already put in some work on the technique, I thought you might like to give me a hand. 
TAURIK: I'd be pleased to, sir. 
LAFORGE: Great. Let's go. 
(La Forge and Taurik leave) 
BEN: How about some blackjack? 
LAVELLE: I've got to get some sleep so I can be sharp tomorrow. 
BEN: Why? So you can get promoted, have more responsibility, and have to get to sleep even earlier? 
LAVELLE: Goodnight. 
[Riker's quarters]
RIKER: Come in. 
CRUSHER: Ben. What are you doing here? 
BEN: I just cleaned out some junior officers and I thought I'd do the same here. 
RIKER: You're welcome to give it a try. 
TROI: Pull up a chair. 
BEN: Thanks. 
[Gymnasium]
(a martial arts class has just finished) 
WORF: Dismissed. Ensign Sito. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
WORF: I also teach an advanced class. I believe you may be ready to participate. However, before you can join the group, you must pass the gik'tal. 
SITO: Gik'tal? 
WORF: Yes. It is a very ancient Klingon ritual. It tests your knowledge of the forms of the mok'bara. 
SITO: I should practice first. 
WORF: No. No practise. That is part of the ritual. The test must be unannounced. 
(Worf blindfolds her) 
WORF: Can you see? 
SITO: No. 
WORF: Good. The gik'tal has begun. Defend yourself. 
(of course, he easily throws her) 
WORF: You must anticipate my attack. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
WORF: Defend yourself. 
(once again, she has no idea where he is before she lands on her back) 
WORF: Are you listening, Ensign? 
SITO: Yes, but 
WORF: Defend yourself. 
(and a third time) 
WORF: You did not anticipate. 
(Sito removes the blindfold) 
SITO: How am I supposed to defend myself when I can't see a thing? 
WORF: Stop making excuses. Replace the blindfold. 
SITO: No. It's not a fair test. 
WORF: Very good, Ensign. You have passed the challenge. 
SITO: What? By taking off the blindfold? 
WORF: It takes courage to say the test is unfair. 
SITO: One thing I don't understand. Doesn't gik'tal mean to the death? 
WORF: You speak Klingon. 
SITO: Sir, is there really such a thing as a gik'tal challenge? 
WORF: No, there is not. But perhaps next time you are judged unfairly, it will not take so many bruises for you protest. 
[Ready room]
SITO: All I've ever wanted is to make a career for myself in Starfleet. I can't change what happened at the Academy. No one can. All I can do is work hard and try to earn the respect of the people I serve with. If you're not going to give me that chance, then I respectfully request that you transfer me to another ship. 
PICARD: If you're looking for a more lenient commander, I don't think you'll find one. 
SITO: Permission to speak freely, sir? 
PICARD: Please do. 
SITO: If you didn't want me on your ship you should have said so when I was assigned to it. It's not your place to punish me for what I did at the Academy. I've worked hard here. My record is exemplary. If you're going to judge me, judge me for what I am now. 
PICARD: Very well, Ensign. I will. It took courage to come here and face me after what I said to you the other day. I didn't ask you here because I was assessing your qualifications for the Ops position. 
SITO: I don't understand, sir. 
PICARD: I was harsh with you because I wanted to assess you for a very important mission. A mission that could put you in a situation that would be far more unnerving than a dressing-down by your commanding officer. 
SITO: Can I ask what that mission is, sir? 
PICARD: Join the senior officers in the Observation lounge at oh nine hundred hours. We'll discuss it then. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
PICARD: And, Ensign. I do know why you ended up on the Enterprise. I asked for you. I wanted to make sure that you got a fair chance to redeem yourself. 
SITO: Thank you, sir. 
[Sickbay]
OGAWA: You wanted to see me, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes. Alyssa, I think you know how much I've come to depend upon you here. I've recommended your promotion because your performance here has been exemplary. 
OGAWA: Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate that. 
CRUSHER: But more than that, I've come to think of you as a friend. Someone I really care about. 
OGAWA: That's nice of you to say. I feel the same way. 
CRUSHER: So, you and Andrew Powell? 
OGAWA: Someone told you. 
CRUSHER: Told me what? 
OGAWA: We were going to keep it a secret until the promotions are announced. 
CRUSHER: Secret? 
OGAWA: He asked me to marry him. 
CRUSHER: Alyssa, that's wonderful! I'm so relieved. I mean happy. 
[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Please, take a seat, Ensign. 
(then she sees the Cardassian) 
PICARD: This is Joret Dal. He was in the escape pod that we retrieved. He is a member of the Cardassian military, and a Federation operative. He has risked his life to bring us invaluable information about Cardassian strategic intentions. Information that could very well enhance the security of Bajor, as well as other planets in this sector. Now, it is absolutely imperative that we return him safely back to Cardassian space. 
JORET: It will not be easy. The border is heavily guarded. 
RIKER: As his ship was destroyed, he'll be using one of our shuttles. 
JORET: If a patrol stops me, I will claim to have stolen it. 
WORF: We have distressed the shuttle so that it appears to have been fired upon. 
RIKER: Joret will attempt to talk his way past the patrol. 
JORET: If I were alone, the chances of my succeeding would be slim. But if I had a prisoner with me, a Bajoran terrorist, I would appear to be a bounty hunter. Border crossings of that nature are not uncommon, and for a price the patrol can be convinced to look the other way. 
PICARD: Once the shuttle is safely past the patrol, Joret will put you into an escape pod and return you back across the border. 
RIKER: Since the pod is so small, it will be difficult to detect. 
PICARD: We'll be waiting here to pick you up. 
SITO: I understand, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, this is obviously a very dangerous mission. I'm not ordering you to take part in it. 
SITO: Then I volunteer, sir. 
WORF: Be certain you understand the risk you are taking. If you are captured 
SITO: I'm Bajoran. No one knows better than I do what Cardassians do to their prisoners. I've made my decision. 
PICARD: Very well, Ensign. Will you report to Sickbay. Doctor Crusher will explain. And Ensign Sito, I must ask you not to discuss this mission with anyone. 
SITO: Yes, sir. 
(Sito leaves) 
JORET: I didn't realise she would be so young. 
[Shuttlebay]
SITO: The Captain asked Doctor Crusher to make it look like Joret had mistreated me. 
(she's got bruises on her face) 
LAFORGE: We're all set here. 
(La Forge leaves) 
SITO: Sir. I want you to know that I really appreciate the fact that you've always had confidence in me. 
WORF: Good luck. 
SITO: I'll see you soon. 
[Shuttlecraft]
JORET: We are approaching the border. It won't be long before we're detected by the patrol ships. 
SITO: When they stop us, do you want me to say anything? 
JORET: No. It should seem that I've broken your will. If you're asked any questions, look at me as though you're afraid to answer. 
SITO: Can I ask you something? Why are you doing this, risking your life to help Starfleet? 
JORET: I don't consider myself a traitor, if that's what you're asking. All my life I've served in the military. Once it was an institution dedicated to the security of Cardassia, now it's little more than a platform for ambitious Guls hoping to make their reputations in battle. If the information I provided helps Starfleet deter even one pointless skirmish, I've served my purpose. I'm sick of war. My people need peace. 
SITO: I never thought I'd hear a Cardassian say something like that. 
JORET: And I never thought a Bajoran would risk her life to help a Cardassian get home. 
SITO: Patrol ships moving in on our position. 
JORET: We don't have much time. 
(he shackles her wrists) 
[Ten Forward]
LAVELLE: She must have left on that shuttle. There's no other explanation. 
BEN: Do you have any idea where it went? 
LAVELLE: Toward Cardassian space. That's what I'm worried about. Oh, there's one other thing, I noticed the shuttle was damaged. 
OGAWA: Sam, can we talk about something else? 
LAVELLE: Well don't you care what's happened to her? 
OGAWA: Of course. 
TAURIK: But we have to accept the fact that we're not always told about everything that happens aboard ship. 
LAVELLE: Well, we can at least tell each other what we know. Do you two know something? 
OGAWA: Sam, please. 
LAVELLE: I can't believe this. We're friends. 
TAURIK: We're also Starfleet Officers. 
OGAWA: I'm not allowed to talk about it. 
LAVELLE: Okay. I understand. I'd better get going. I've got duty in half an hour. 
Captain's log, stardate 47566.7. We have reached the coordinates in Federation space where Ensign Sito's escape pod was to have rendezvoused with us. However, we have been waiting for over thirty hours and as yet there is no sign of her. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Report. 
LAVELLE: We completed a long range scan of the area, sir. The escape pod doesn't seem to be out there. 
DATA: It is possible that at this distance we are unable to distinguish the pod from the inorganic matter normally present in space. 
RIKER: Try narrowing the scan field. See if you can pick up any biosigns. 
LAVELLE: Sir, it would help if I knew what kind of life signs to look for. 
RIKER: You're scanning for Bajoran lifesigns. 
LAVELLE: Yes, sir. 
(Picard enters) 
RIKER: Nothing yet. The pod is thirty two hours overdue. 
WORF: Sir, I recommend we launch a probe to increase the range of our sensor sweeps. 
RIKER: Launching a probe into Cardassian space would be a treaty violation. 
PICARD: Mister Worf, prepare a probe and launch when ready. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Probe launched, sir. 
DATA: Sir, I am detecting signs of debris two hundred thousand kilometres inside Cardassian space. Its mass and composition indicate it could be the remains of a Federation escape pod. 
Captain's log, supplemental. We have intercepted a Cardassian report stating that a Bajoran prisoner escaped her captor and was killed in an evacuation pod as she tried to leave Cardassian space. 
[Ready room]
PICARD: To all Starfleet personnel, this is the Captain. It is my sad duty to inform you that a member of the crew, Ensign Sito Jaxa 
[Engineering]
PICARD [OC]: Has been lost 
[Sickbay]
PICARD [OC]: In the line of duty. She was the finest example of a Starfleet 
[Bridge]
PICARD [OC]: Officer, and a young woman of remarkable courage 
[Ready room]
PICARD: And strength of character. Her loss will be deeply felt by all who knew her. Picard out. 
[Ten Forward]
(the atmosphere is well, sad) 
BEN: You okay? 
LAVELLE: I just got promoted. 
OGAWA: Congratulations. 
LAVELLE: Thanks. It just don't feel right. For all I know, she was going to get the promotion instead of me. 
BEN: You shouldn't feel that way, Sam. 
OGAWA: She would have been happy for you, Sam. 
TAURIK: The best way to remember her would be to excel in your new position. 
OGAWA: We're proud of you, Sam. 
BEN: Excuse me, sir, but I need to move this table. 
WORF: What? 
BEN: There's an empty seat over there. 
WORF: I appreciate what you are trying to do, but it is not appropriate. You were her friends. I was only her commanding officer. 
BEN: Sir, I happen to know that she considered you a friend. 
(so Worf joins the youngsters remembering Sito) 

