Episode Number: 266
The Next Generation Transcripts - Sub Rosa
Sub Rosa
Stardate: 47423.9
Original Airdate: 31 Jan, 1994
[Graveyard]
(What looks like a traditional British church and churchyard, with people wearing plaid sashes over their tweeds, and a bell tolling) 
CRUSHER: Most people on this colony will remember my grandmother as a healer, but her abilities went beyond that. She didn't just relieve pain and fight illness. She knew that wellbeing is more than a healthy body. Her remedies often included words of advice as well as medicinal teas, and often they were just as bitter tasting. I will miss Felisa Howard very much. Her healing, her advice, and most of all, the inspiration she has provided me throughout the years. Rest in peace, Nana. 
MATURIN: (not human) And so now we commit her body to the ground, earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust, in sure and certain hope that her memory will be kept alive within us all. 
ALL: Amen. 
(most people through soil onto the coffin, but one man throws a camellia. A little later, after the titles) 
TROI: That was a beautiful. 
CRUSHER: Oh, thank you. Deanna, did you notice a strange man at the service? He was in his mid-thirties with longish hair? 
TROI: No. 
CRUSHER: He threw a flower on Nana's grave. A camellia. It was her favourite flower. She used to keep them all over the house. 
TROI: Maybe he was a friend or one of her patients. 
CRUSHER: It was a very personal gesture, and he gave me a remarkable look. Well, I guess I should be going back to the house. There are some things I need to do. It's only a few minutes from here. Would you mind coming along? 
TROI: I'd love to. 
CRUSHER: Thanks. 
MATURIN: How long do you plan on staying? 
PICARD: A few more hours. Why? 
MATURIN: Well, as you know, Caldos is one of the first terraforming projects of the Federation. Our weather controls and fusion systems are nearly a century old. I wouldn't mind having a starship Engineer take a look at them. Perhaps give us a few upgrades. Maybe in exchange for a tour of the colony and a home-cooked meal? 
PICARD: Well, we are due at Starbase six two one tomorrow morning, but we could delay for a few days. Yes, I'm sure we could find the time. 
MATURIN: Excellent. 
PICARD: I would enjoy that tour. Caldos Colony is a most impressive accomplishment. I actually feel as if I'm in the Scottish Highlands. 
MATURIN: That was the intent. The cornerstone of every building in town was brought from Edinburgh, Glasgow, Aberdeen. The founders wanted everyone to feel they had a piece of the real thing here. They didn't want to just imitate Scotland, they wanted to recreate it. 
PICARD: Tell me, Governor, I'm curious. You're obviously not Scots yourself. What was it that drew you here? 
MATURIN: Something about the culture, the heritage. When I was a boy, my family visited Glamis Castle in Scotland. As I looked out across the highlands, I felt as if I had come home. 
[Howard home]
(C19 romantic style with lots of wood and bunches of dried lavender. Beverly pokes at a fire in the hearth) 
TROI: Your grandmother had remarkable green eyes. 
CRUSHER: Every woman in the Howard family has had green eyes, except for my mother and me. 
TROI: How well do you remember your mother? 
CRUSHER: Very well. I loved her very much. I can remember her face smiling down at me, and I can remember the sound of her voice and her scent. But mostly I remember Nana, who raised me after my mother died. 
(she picks up a pierced metal lamp with a flickering candle in it) 
TROI: That's beautiful. 
CRUSHER: It's a family heirloom. It's been in the Howard clan for generations. It's supposed to symbolise the enduring Howard spirit. Wherever they may go, the shining light to guide them through their fortune. Nana always kept it lit. I remember sitting here listening to ghost stories with only the candle burning. 
TROI: You should take it with you. 
CRUSHER: I think I will. 
TROI: I'm going to head back to the ship. 
CRUSHER: You don't have to leave. 
TROI: I just thought you'd like some time alone. I'll see you later. 
CRUSHER: Thanks. 
(Troi leaves. Beverly wraps herself in a blanked and goes upstairs reading Felicia's journal) 
(a middle aged man comes in and blows out the candle) 
CRUSHER [OC]: Who's there? 
(Beverly runs down stairs and grabs the lamp) 
CRUSHER: What the hell are you doing? Get out of my house. 
QUINT: I wouldna be so high and mighty with me, Beverly Howard Crusher. I've spent more time here in the past five years than ye have in the past twenty. 
CRUSHER: How do you know who I am? 
QUINT: I'm Ned Quint. I took care of your grandmother's house and her affairs. 
CRUSHER: Nana never mentioned you. 
QUINT: There's a lot of things she didna talk about. Let me get rid of that candle. 
CRUSHER: Why? 
QUINT: That candle has brought nothing but misery and bad luck to your grandmother. 
CRUSHER: Look, Mister Quint, I don't know what your relationship was with my grandmother, but this is my house now and these are my things. 
QUINT: That candle has been a curse on your family for generations. If ye have a lick of sense, you'll listen to me right now and do away with it. Now give it to me. 
CRUSHER: This is a family heirloom and I intend to keep it. Now would you please get out of my house. Now! 
QUINT: Howard women. Always the same stubborn fools. I wash my hands of it now. You stay on in this house and you keep that damned candle. I'll not be responsible for what happens. 
CRUSHER: Get out. 
[Engineering]
DATA: The colony's aqueduct system is functioning normally, as are the communication relays. 
MATURIN: We've been having a few tremors over the past couple of months. Could you check the seismic stabilisers? 
DATA: Certainly. 
MATURIN: You can't imagine what it's like trying to enjoy afternoon tea while the earth is shaking. 
LAFORGE: Governor, did you know you had a power fluctuation in your weather control system? 
MATURIN: No. Our weather control's been working perfectly for the last twenty two years. 
LAFORGE: I can't isolate the exact source, but the fluctuation seems to be originating from one of the substations that regulates atmospheric humidity for the colony. 
MATURIN: Is this going to be a problem? 
LAFORGE: No, not yet, but power distribution patterns are already off by five percent. 
DATA: I suggest we analyse the planet's weather patterns to see if they have been affected. I am reading unusually high humidity across the entire southern desert region and there is increasing cloud activity above the northern coastal area. Possibly the formation of a storm system. 
MATURIN: A storm? It's the middle of summer. We don't have rain at this time of year. 
LAFORGE: Data, let's see if we can correct this. I'll check out the colony's climatic flow array. 
DATA: I will run a diagnostic on the thermal regulators. 
LAFORGE: Don't worry, Governor. We'll keep you dry. 
MATURIN: I certainly hope so. There's a caber toss scheduled for tomorrow afternoon. I'd hate to see it spoiled by an unexpected downpour. 
[Corridor]
CRUSHER: You wouldn't believe what I've been reading about in my grandmother's journals. You know she had a lover? Can you believe that? Nana was a hundred years old. 
PICARD: It would seem the Howard women have exceptionally vigorous libidos. 
CRUSHER: I certainly hope so. After all, I hope I can find a handsome young man in his thirties when I pass the century mark. 
PICARD: Thirties? 
CRUSHER: Yes. According to these journals, his name is Ronin and he's thirty four years old. They met just after my great-grandmother's death. And I think I saw him at the funeral. A handsome young man tossed a camellia onto her grave. But the strange thing is, she never mentioned him in her letters. Never once. And yet it appears they spent almost all their time together. It's as if she led an entire life that I knew nothing about. 
PICARD: Well it looks like we're going to be on Caldos for a few days more. This will be a good opportunity to get your grandmother's affairs in order. 
CRUSHER: Thank you. 
(Beverly enters her quarters) 
PICARD: Thirties? 
[Crusher's quarters]
(Beverly is in bed reading the journal when she dozes off. The unlit lamp flickers briefly, then her nightgown is moved from her shoulder) 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly. 
(she starts up, awake) 
[Ten Forward]
TROI: You dreamt you were in bed with someone? 
CRUSHER: Not exactly. I was in bed but there wasn't another person in my dream. It was more like a presence. 
TROI: You said you felt a touch. 
CRUSHER: A pair of hands. They were moving across my skin. 
TROI: Like a caress? 
CRUSHER: Yes. And there was a voice, a man. He whispered my name. It was as if I knew him, or more like he knew me. He knew exactly how I liked to be touched. It was the most physical dream I've ever had. The sensations were very real and extremely arousing. 
TROI: Frankly, I'm envious. 
CRUSHER: I did fall asleep reading a particularly erotic chapter in my grandmother's journal. She wrote very detailed descriptions of her experiences with Ronin. 
TROI: Well, that's bound to cause a dream or two. So, shall we start going over the personnel reports? 
CRUSHER: You know, I think he had a ring on one of his hands when he touched my shoulder, my neck. I wonder if I'll have another dream tonight. 
TROI: I'd read two chapters. 
[Graveyard]
(Beverly is in local garb, and Ned is tidying the edges of the grave) 
QUINT: You probably want to be alone. I'll leave. 
CRUSHER: No, Ned, it's okay. Look, I'm sorry we got off to a bad start yesterday. I've been reading my grandmother's journals and I know how much you meant to her. 
QUINT: Aye, she was a grand lady. You'll not see many more like her. You have your grandmother's fire, that's for sure. 
CRUSHER: Ned, you're welcome to stay at the house after I've gone. I need someone to take care of the place. 
QUINT: That's verra kind of you, lass, but I'll ne'er set foot in that house again. And I recommend that you dinna, either. 
CRUSHER: Why? 
QUINT: Like I tried to tell your grandmother, the hoose is haunted. 
CRUSHER: Haunted? 
QUINT: You believe what you want, lass. Just dinna light that candle. 
CRUSHER: Why not? 
QUINT: It'll bring the ghost. It's his home. Oh, he's out now, wanderin' across the land, angry, angry at being driven out. That's why he's bringing the storms. 
CRUSHER: Ned, the weather systems control is malfunctioning. The Enterprise is trying to repair it. 
QUINT: Oh, sure. But who do you think is causing the malfunction? 
CRUSHER: I think your imagination is 
QUINT: Think what you want. See what you want. Just do as I say. Dinna light that candle or dinna go to that hoose, or before you know it, they'll be burying another Howard in this cemetery. 
(Ned leaves. Lightning flashes and the grave is now covered in camellias. Beverly flees) 
[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I am detecting atmospheric turbulence over the colony and large pockets of electrical activity. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: It is growing in intensity, sir. 
RIKER: That's one hell of a thunderstorm. 
PICARD: Bridge to Engineering. Mister Data, we're reading 
[Engineering]
PICARD [OC]: An extremely large storm system over the Caldos colony. 
[Bridge]
PICARD: I thought that the weather control malfunction was not severe. 
[Engineering]
DATA: It began as a minor power fluctuation, sir, but the effect has spread throughout the control grid. It has caused an unusual concentration of cumulonimbus activity above the colony. 
LAFORGE: Captain, I suggest we set up a power transfer between the Enterprise and the weather substations. Try to give them enough power to stabilise the storm. 
PICARD [OC]: Make it so. 
[Howard home]
(Beverly enters, soaked from the storm. The house is filled with camellias) 
CRUSHER: Who's there? Ned? Is that you? Hello? I know somebody's here, so I suggest you 
(a mirror bounced against the wall. She removes it and is about to put it back when she sees the reflection of a man behind her. She drops the mirror, but there is no one there) 
CRUSHER: All right now, that's it. If you don't show yourself right now I am calling the Enterprise and there will be ten security guards here within thirty seconds. 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly. Beverly, I've come back for you 
CRUSHER: Who are you? 
RONIN [OC]: Don't you remember? I came to you last night while you were asleep. 
CRUSHER: No, that was a dream. I'm calling the Enterprise. 
(she goes weak at the knees) 
RONIN [OC]: Now do you remember me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. What's, what's happening to me? Right now I feel so strange. 
RONIN [OC]: I love you, Beverly, just as I loved Felisa before you. 
CRUSHER: Are you Ronin? 
RONIN [OC]: Yes. You saw me at the funeral. 
(Beverly has a little orgasm) 
CRUSHER: Who are you? 
RONIN [OC]: I'm a spirit. 
CRUSHER: I don't believe in 
RONIN [OC]: Ghosts? Nor did I in the beginning. I was born in sixteen forty seven, in Glasgow on Earth. 
CRUSHER: You're telling me that you're an eight hundred year old ghost? 
RONIN [OC]: I found a home with Jessel Howard. She was a pretty lass with a mane of red hair, and eyes like diamonds. I loved her very much. When she died, I stayed with her daughter, and her daughter, and on down through the years, generation after generation. 
CRUSHER: And now you're here on Caldos, two hundred light years away? 
RONIN [OC]: When your family moved out into the galaxy, I moved with them. 
CRUSHER: I don't believe you. 
RONIN [OC]: I believe you are the most beautiful women I have ever known. 
CRUSHER: What's, what's happening to me? 
RONIN [OC]: We're becoming one, Beverly. We're going to be together. 
CRUSHER: I don't understand. Stop it! 
[Crusher's quarters]
(Beverly is arranging flowers) 
CRUSHER: Come in. 
TROI: Hi, Bev. I just wanted to see if you were going to mok'bara class this morning. 
CRUSHER: No, I think I'll skip it today. I'm exhausted. 
TROI: Did you have another dream last night? 
CRUSHER: Not exactly. 
TROI: Is anything wrong? 
CRUSHER: Not at all. 
TROI: Beverly, if I didn't know any better, I'd say you were seeing someone. 
CRUSHER: Deanna. 
TROI: Now I know you're seeing someone. 
CRUSHER: I'm not seeing anybody. I met someone, that's all. 
TROI: Well, you obviously have romantic feelings for him. Beverly, when are you going to realise that you can't fool me? Who is it? 
CRUSHER: All right. I met Ronin. 
TROI: Ronin? Your grandmother's lover? 
CRUSHER: He's unlike anyone I've ever met before. I know this sounds crazy, but I have never known anyone who was so 
TROI: Passionate. 
CRUSHER: Exactly. I can see why Nana fell in love with him. This sounds very strange, doesn't it? 
TROI: I admit it's unusual. I'm very happy for you. But I want you to consider something. You and Ronin have both suffered a tremendous loss. Very often, shared traumatic experience can create the illusion of closeness and romance. 
CRUSHER: Thank you for your concern, but I think I know what I'm doing. Besides, I didn't say I was in love with him. I'm just intrigued. 
[Turbolift]
MATURIN: You know, Captain, I moved to this colony because it was a recreation of Scotland, but I must admit it's getting to be a little too realistic. 
(he sneezes) 
[Bridge]
(there is low-lying mist on the deck) 
PICARD: What the hell is going on? 
DATA: There appears to be a condensed suspension of water vapour, approximately one degree Celsius. 
PICARD: Fog. 
RIKER: It just sort of rolled in on us, sir. 
WORF: There has been a malfunction in the ship's environmental control. 
RIKER: We've traced the problem to the power transfer beam. There's some sort of feedback coming from one of the colony's weather substations. 
MATURIN: Another power fluctuation? 
WORF: Captain, the temperature in Ten Forward has dropped to below freezing and deck thirteen has lost gravity. 
PICARD: Mister Data, disengage the power transfer. 
DATA: I am unable to terminate the connection, sir. A feedback loop has formed in the transfer beam. I will have to go to the substation and attempt to correct the problem from there. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: In the meantime, I think I'll go get my jacket. 
[Weather control station]
DATA: I have analysed the control module in the primary weather control grid. It appears the station is experiencing a system wide power failure. 
LAFORGE: This is impossible. The back up systems should have 
(an alarm sounds and they spot Ned underneath a console) 
DATA: Excuse me, sir. You are dismantling the primary power conduit. I must ask you to stop. 
QUINT: No! (Data pulls him out) Get away from me! You dinna understand. He's trying to kill us all.
(green energy leaps out at Ned and throws him across the room) 
DATA: He is dead. 
(later, others have gathered) 
LAFORGE: From what I can tell, he was trying to shut down the entire weather control system. He was pulling out the primary plasma conduit. That's probably what caused the plasma discharge that killed him. 
MATURIN: I knew Ned Quint. He was an honest man. He mostly kept to himself. I don't know why he'd try something like that. 
LAFORGE: It's going to take us some time to get the system back online. I'd say we need another day at least. 
DATA: In the meantime, Governor, you should expect the weather problems to continue. 
CRUSHER: I think you'd better take a look at this. 
(Beverly is by Ned's body) 
CRUSHER: Data, you said there was a plasma discharge from the console when Quint was killed. 
DATA: That is correct. 
CRUSHER: Well, that wasn't what killed him. I'm detecting an anomalous energy residual throughout his body, right down to the cellular level. Whatever it is, it wasn't the result of a plasma discharge. 
(Data scans the corpse) 
LAFORGE: Anything? 
DATA: I cannot identify the energy residual. However, it appears to have the same anaphasic signature as the power fluctuations we observed from the weather control system. 
LAFORGE: Then it's possible that whatever caused the weather malfunctions also killed Quint. 
DATA: It is possible. 
LAFORGE: We should scan the colony for any energy readings that match this anaphasic signature. 
CRUSHER: Governor, with your permission, I'd like to take the body back to the ship to run further tests. 
MATURIN: Of course, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Ensign, ask Doctor Selar run a biospectral analysis. 
NURSE: Yes, Doctor. 
MATURIN: You're not going to run the tests yourself? 
CRUSHER: No. I have some things I need to attend to. 
[Howard home]
CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to talk to you. Are you here? 
RONIN [OC]: I'm here. Beverly, did you miss me? 
CRUSHER: Yes. But I must talk to you. There's been an accident. 
RONIN [OC]: I know. Quint is dead. 
CRUSHER: Why did it happen? What was he doing? 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly, there's something more important we should talk about. 
CRUSHER: Ronin, I've got to know. Quint's dead. 
(a hand reaches round and cups her face. His touch sends her all unnecessary, and he maintains the contact all the time) 
CRUSHER: Ronin? 
RONIN: Yes. I need you to help me. 
CRUSHER: Help you? 
RONIN: It's not easy for me to take corporeal form. I can't do it for long. I want you to light the candle. 
CRUSHER: Quint said you lived in the candle. Is that true? 
RONIN: Yes. If I'm away from it for too long, I begin to weaken. That's why the women in your family have always kept the candle lit. 
CRUSHER: The candle's on the ship. I'll go get it. 
RONIN: No. I must go with you. 
CRUSHER: How? 
RONIN: The power transfer beam. I can travel along it. 
CRUSHER: And when the candle's lit, then what happens? 
RONIN: Then we'll be together, always. 
(he kisses her into near ecstasy, then vanishes) 
[Crusher's quarters]
CRUSHER: Computer, secure door. 
(Beverly is agitated as if she's withdrawing from a drug) 
CRUSHER: I lit the candle. Where are you? 
RONIN: It's all right. We're together. we're going to be one. I'm going to become part of you, Beverly. Would you like that? 
CRUSHER: Oh, yes. More than anything. 
RONIN: As it was with your grandmother, and your great-grandmother, and all of the Howard women before them. I'll take care of you. And you will feel love as you've never felt it before. 
(Ronin turns into a green mist and enters Beverly) 
[Transporter room]
(Beverly is in Caldos clothes, and the candle is on the pile of bags) 
PICARD: Beverly, what the hell is this? 
CRUSHER: I thought it was pretty self-explanatory. I'm leaving Starfleet. Energize. 
PICARD: Belay that order. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Beverly, you can't just resign. 
CRUSHER: I can, and I have. I've decided to stay on Caldos and become a healer like my grandmother. It's a proud Howard tradition and I've decided to uphold it. Energise. I've resigned my commission, so unless you plan on kidnapping me? 
(Picard nods and she is beamed away) 
[Ready room]
TROI: Beverly was attracted to Ronin in a very intense and intimate way. I warned her that it was all very sudden but she didn't want to talk about it, so I let her alone. I sensed that she was holding something back, that she wasn't telling me the whole truth. 
PICARD: Do you think this Ronin could be exerting some sort of influence over her? That it's because of him that she's staying? 
TROI: It's possible. But she may really believe she's in love with him. 
PICARD: This is a rash decision, ill considered. It's not like Beverly at all. 
TROI: I agree, but she does have the right to make that choice, even if we don't feel it's a good one. 
(doorbell) 
PICARD: Come. 
DATA: Captain, Geordi and I have detected an energy residual with the same anaphasic signature as the one we found on Ned Quint's body. 
PICARD: Where? 
DATA: Approximately seventeen kilometres from the centre of the colony, sir. It is coming from the cemetery. 
PICARD: Data, I want you to go down to the cemetery. See if you can pinpoint the source. 
DATA: Aye, sir. 
(Data leaves) 
PICARD: In the meantime, I would like to meet with this Ronin. 
[Graveyard]
(it is night) 
LAFORGE: The energy readings are coming from this direction, but I can't get an exact location. I'll try narrowing the scan field. 
DATA: The energy readings appear to be originating approximately two metres below the surface. I believe they are concentrated within this burial site. 
(the headstone says Felisa Howard) 
[Howard home]
CRUSHER: I'm so glad you're here. I can't imagine what life was like before I met you. 
RONIN: And it will only get better. 
(he turns into a green mist and enters her body) 
CRUSHER: Oh, Ronin. I had no idea I could feel this way. 
RONIN [OC]: We're nearly merged now. As two candles join to form a single light, so we will flourish as one. 
(a knock at the door) 
RONIN [OC]: I love you, Beverly. 
CRUSHER: I love you. 
(another knock, then Picard enters) 
PICARD: Beverly? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Sorry I startled you. I knocked but there was no answer. The door was open. I hope you don't mind. 
CRUSHER: What do you want? 
PICARD: Well, I'd hoped to meet your new friend, Ronin. 
CRUSHER: He's not here. 
PICARD: Well, perhaps I could wait, if you don't mind. I'm really anxious to meet this remarkable young man who swept away not just one, but two of the Howard women. 
CRUSHER: (carrying the candle) Jealousy doesn't suit you, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: Have you changed the colour of your eyes? 
CRUSHER: I just grew tired of the other colour. Don't you think it suits me? 
PICARD: I think that I preferred your eyes the way they were before. I think I preferred you the way you were before, Beverly. 
CRUSHER: Well, this is the way I am now. And this is my life. I've made my decision and I'm not going to change my mind, so please leave me alone. 
PICARD: Oh, no, there's something's wrong here. Now, Beverly, this is more than just an obsessive love affair that has got out of hand. Tell me, why is it that no one has seen this Ronin except you? 
RONIN: (coming down the stairs) All right, Captain. Here I am. I believe Beverly asked you to leave her alone. 
(Beverly goes to Ronin's side) 
PICARD: So, you're Ronin. It's a pleasure to meet you. Where are you from? 
RONIN: Earth. Scotland. 
PICARD: How long have you been on Caldos? 
RONIN: All that matters is that I'm here now, and that Beverly and I plan to be together for the rest our lives. 
DATA [OC]: Data to Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Data. 
DATA [OC]: Captain, we have located the source of the energy residual. It appears to be concentrated within Felisa Howard's coffin. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Captain, we'd like permission to exhume the body. 
RONIN: You can't do that. Leave her alone. 
PICARD: Why not? What are you afraid of? 
RONIN: I'm not afraid of anything. But I cannot allow you to desecrate her grave. 
PICARD: Data, ask Governor Maturin's permission to exhume the body. Picard out. 
RONIN: I won't stand for this. I'll go to the Governor myself. 
PICARD: Go on. I wouldn't be surprised if he doesn't know who you are. He'll probably have the same questions that I do. How did you get here? What ship did you come on? 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc, leave him alone. 
PICARD: Why don't you answer my questions? What ship? I'd like to look at the passenger list. Where have you been living here? What's your position? Who are your neighbours? 
(Ronin vanishes) 
PICARD: Come on, Beverly, we've got to get out of here. 
(Picard touches Beverly and gets zapped by green) 
CRUSHER: Jean-Luc. 
(Beverly grabs her medical kit) 
RONIN [OC]: Beverly, we must stop the others. They cannot exhume the body. 
CRUSHER: We can't just leave him. He might die. 
RONIN [OC]: You must come. I am your love. I am the one who will take care of you. 
CRUSHER: I can't just let him die. 
RONIN: Beverly, come with me. 
CRUSHER: No. No! 
RONIN: I'm sorry, I'm going to stop them. 
(Ronin leaves) 
CRUSHER: Come on, come on. 
PICARD: I'm all right. Beverly, go after him. Go to the cemetery. 
[Graveyard]
LAFORGE: La Forge to Enterprise. We're ready down here. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
(the coffin is beamed out of the grave without the pile of soil collapsing, and they lift the lid off to reveal a white haired old lady) 
DATA: I am reading definite signs of anaphasic energy in her body. It appears to extend to the cellular level. 
LAFORGE: That's impossible. She wasn't anywhere near the weather station when Quint was killed. She died of natural causes. 
DATA: I suggest we run a deep tissue scan to look for any signs of 
(Felicia opens her bright green eyes, sits up and zaps the pair of them) 
CRUSHER: No! Ronin, stop this. Stop this, please. 
FELISA: Beverly, it's all right. Have trust in me. 
CRUSHER: You're not Nana. Nana's dead. Leave her alone! 
(green comes out of Felisa and the corpse falls back. Ronin appears.) 
RONIN: Beverly! Forgive me. These men were trying to stop us from being together. Once they're gone, everything will be right. 
CRUSHER: No, it won't. You've been infusing me with the same sort of anaphasic energy that killed Quint. 
RONIN: He was trying to destroy me. I had to defend myself. My love. I could never harm you. I am here to protect you. 
CRUSHER: No, you're not. There's no such thing as a ghost. You are some sort of anaphasic lifeform. Anaphasic energy is extremely unstable. It needs an organic host in order to maintain molecular cohesion or else you'll die. Isn't that right? 
RONIN: Beverly. 
CRUSHER: I also scanned the candle. The flame is plasma based. You were using it as a receptacle for yourself in order to get to me, in order to merge with me. You have been using me, Nana, my entire family for centuries. 
RONIN: And I loved all of them! And they loved me. Give me the candle, Beverly. 
CRUSHER: No. No. 
(Ronin gives Geordi another zap) 
RONIN: Put it down, or I will kill him. Set it down and walk away. 
(Beverly puts it down then grabs Geordi's phaser and destroys it) 
RONIN: No! 
CRUSHER: (into Geordi's comm. badge) Crusher to Riker. Will, close off all the plasma conduits in the weather control system. I'll explain later. 
RIKER [OC]: Understood. 
CRUSHER: You've nowhere left to go. 
RONIN: Yes, I do. 
CRUSHER: Keep away from me. 
(Crusher shoots him) 
RONIN: Beverly. I love you. Beverly. 
(he runs at her and she destroys him) 
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and Mister Data have recovered from their exposure to the anaphasic energy, but I'm afraid Doctor Crusher's recovery will be of a more personal nature. 
[Ten Forward]
CRUSHER: Somehow, he realised that one of my ancestors had a biochemistry that was compatible with his energy matrix. I imagine that he took human form and seduced her like he did me. I was about to be initiated into a very unusual relationship. You might call it a family tradition. But there's a part of me that's a little sad. 
TROI: How so? 
CRUSHER: I re-read the entries in my grandmother's journals. Whatever else he might have done, he made her very happy. 

