Episode Number: 210
The Next Generation Transcripts - New Ground
New Ground
Stardate: 45376.3
Original Airdate: 6 Jan, 1992
Captain's log, stardate 45376.3. We are approaching the planet Bilana Three, where a new method of propulsion known as the Soliton Wave is being developed. The Enterprise has been asked to participate in one of the first tests of this new technology. 
[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Data! Data, isn't this exciting? We are going to witness a moment in history. 
DATA: Every nanosecond in this continuum is a moment in history, once it has elapsed. 
LAFORGE: No, no, no, no. I mean, we're going to see something that people will talk about for years. I mean, think about it. No more bulky warp engines or nacelles. A ship just generates a Soliton wave and then rides it through space like a surfboard. This is going to be like being there to watch Chuck Yeager break the sound barrier, or Zephram Cochrane engage the first warp drive. 
DATA: It should be interesting. 
WORF: Very exciting. 
LAFORGE: I'm talking to the wrong crowd. Donaldson! Donaldson, you're an engineer. 
(moves out of shot) 
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Lieutenant Worf, you have a subspace communication from the transport ship Milan. 
WORF: Transfer the signal to this station. 
HELENA [on monitor]: Hello, Worf. 
WORF: Mother. 
HELENA [on monitor]: I hope you don't mind us dropping in on you like this, but when I heard the Enterprise was to be in this sector, we took the first transport and here we are. 
WORF: Is father with you? 
HELENA [on monitor]: No, but I brought Alexander with me. I thought the two of you would like a chance to visit. 
WORF: Very well. I will make arrangements for you to come aboard. 
HELENA [on monitor]: Good. 
[Transporter room]
HELENA: Worf. Worf. It's so good to see you. You look wonderful. Is that a touch of grey in your beard? Don't worry, the Rozhenko men have always had beards of iron grey. 
WORF: Hello, Alexander. 
ALEXANDER: Hello. 
WORF: It is good to see you both. How long can you stay? 
ALEXANDER: I'm not going back. 
[Ten Forward]
HELENA: Did you see the look on Alexander's face when he saw the play area? He's going to love it here. 
WORF: Mother, why does Alexander believe he is remaining? 
HELENA: Lapsang suchong tea, please. Have you been eating? You look thin. 
WORF: Mother. 
HELENA: When your father was in Starfleet, I always had to make sure that 
WORF: Mother. We need to talk about Alexander. 
HELENA: Alexander is a fine boy, Worf. He's smart and he's high-spirited. Like you were at that age. Sometimes, when he comes running through the house and knocks over that big green lamp, just like you used to do. 
WORF: I don't remember you smiling when I knocked over that lamp. 
HELENA: Well maybe once, when you weren't looking. When we learned Alexander was to come to live with us, we were so happy. The house had been so empty since you left, and we thought here is our chance to fill it with the sound of children again. But the truth is, Worf, your father and I, we're getting old. 
WORF: Mother, you both have many years 
HELENA: I don't mean we're ready for the grave. Not yet, anyway. But we're a little less active. It's harder for us to keep up with Alexander. We're ready to be just grandparents. Alexander needs to be with his father. 
WORF: Mother, that is not possible. We must find another option. 
HELENA: He needs his father, Worf. Alexander's, he's having difficulties. 
WORF: Difficulties? 
HELENA: He's disobedient. 
WORF: Mother, Klingon children are often difficult to control. 
HELENA: I do know something about how Klingon children behave. It's not just his willful attitude. He doesn't always tell the truth. 
WORF: My son is a liar? 
HELENA: He is a boy, Worf, and boys sometimes take the wrong path. They need guidance. He needs a father, his father, to give him that guidance. I have to leave soon. The transport will be leaving for Earth. You must do what you think is best for him. That's all a parent can hope to do. 
[Corridor]
WORF: Did you enjoy going to school on Earth? 
ALEXANDER: Yes. 
WORF: Did you like your teachers? 
ALEXANDER: Yes. 
WORF: Good. I understand you lived in my old room. 
ALEXANDER: Ah ha. 
WORF: Good. 
[Mrs. Kyle's office]
KYLE: Come in. Lieutenant Worf. Very nice to see you again. And you must be Alexander. I hear you'll be coming to school with us for a while? Well, we're very excited to have you with us. I know the other boys and girls will be happy to have a new classmate. First I need to get a little information from you. Let's start with your name. Alexander Rozhenko. That's a tough one. Maybe you can help me with that. Could you spell your last name for me? 
(but Alexander is too busy looking around the room) 
WORF: Alexander. The teacher asked you a question. 
KYLE: It doesn't matter. I think I can figure it out. Date of birth? 
(Worf doesn't know) 
ALEXANDER: The forty third day of Maktag, stardate 43205. 
WORF: Yes. Yes, of course. 
KYLE: I'll get the rest of his personal records from the school on Earth, and, oh, one last question. How long will he be staying aboard ship? 
WORF: It has not been decided. 
[Ready room]
PICARD: Come. Mister Worf, I thought our meeting was scheduled for eleven hundred hours. 
WORF: I apologise for being late, Captain. I was detained in school. I was enrolling my son in class. 
PICARD: I see. Well, Mister Worf, as you're aware, several new security officers will be transferring to the Enterprise next week and I would like to discuss. 
KYLE [OC]: Kyle to Lieutenant Worf. 
WORF: Worf here. 
KYLE [OC]: I'm sorry to bother you again, Lieutenant, but I forgot to mention that we need to arrange for a series of placement examinations for Alexander. If you could tell me when 
WORF: This is not a good time. I will contact you shortly, Miss Kyle. Sorry, Captain. 
PICARD: I would like to discuss with you the specific areas of ship's security that I would like 
CRUSHER [OC]: Sickbay to Worf. 
WORF: Yes, Doctor? 
CRUSHER [OC]: I need to schedule a physical examination for Alexander. I also need his complete medical records from Earth and the medical records of his 
WORF: I would rather discuss this at a later time. 
CRUSHER [OC]: There's no rush. Crusher out. 
PICARD: Mister Worf. You are not the first officer on this ship to have a new family member. Take care of your son. The security matters can wait. 
WORF: Thank you, Captain. 
[Observation lounge]
(an alien humanoid is giving a presentation) 
JA'DAR: Twenty three field coils, working in concert, will generate the soliton wave from this point on the planet surface. We will have our test ship towed to a position approximately two million kilometres from Bilana Three. If our theories are correct, the wave will envelop the ship and push it into warp. 
PICARD: Warp without warp drive. 
RIKER: They're going to put you out of a job, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: I hope so, Commander. 
DATA: Doctor Ja'Dar, how closely will the Enterprise need to follow the test vehicle? 
JA'DAR: The soliton emits a great deal of subspace radio interference. You'll need to remain within twenty kilometres in order to receive telemetry. 
PICARD: Doctor, how will you end the experiment? 
JA'DAR: The wave will be directed toward Lemma Two, about three light years distance. Our sister facility there which will generate a scattering field which will dissipate the wave and bring the ship out of warp. I'll be sending you more detailed operational plans within the hour. 
PICARD: Very well, Doctor. We'll contact you again once we've finished studying the mission specs. 
[Bridge]
TROI: Worf. I was just talking with Mrs. Kyle the primary school teacher. She told me you enrolled Alexander in her class this morning. 
WORF: Yes. 
TROI: I'm sure he'll do very well. She's a wonderful teacher. 
WORF: Good. 
TROI: Did she tell you about the father-son field trip this afternoon? 
WORF: Yes. We cannot attend. 
TROI: Why not? 
WORF: I have a personnel review scheduled at thirteen hundred hours. 
TROI: This would be a good opportunity for you to meet some of the other students and parents. 
WORF: I might be able to reschedule the review. 
TROI: Good. I'll let them know you're coming. 
[Biolab]
(there are models, and things in display cases) 
KYLE: As the value of their horns increased, the number of white rhinos in the wild kept falling, until they finally became extinct about two centuries ago. Now, I'd like to show you a pair of animals we're trying to save from extinction. Would you follow me? They're from Corvan Two, where their homes in the rainforests are being threatened by industrial pollutants. They're called Corvan gilvos. They're a little shy. 
(something moves in the cage) 
KYLE: The eating habits of gilvos are very similar to those of Earth's Draco lizards, which died out over three hundred years ago. There are only fourteen gilvos left on Corvan Two. We're transplanting these two to the protected planet Brentalia, where they should thrive. Well, why don't you all have a look around on your own for a while. If you have any questions, please feel free to ask. 
(the others disperse, but Alexander is completely taken by the gilvos) 
KYLE: Alexander, I'm sorry. I forgot to tell everyone that the models on the tables were for everyone to play with. So I guess you didn't know you weren't supposed to take them. I saw you playing with the lizard model a little while ago. Do you still have it? 
WORF: Are you accusing him of stealing? 
KYLE: Lieutenant Worf, I can only tell you that 
WORF: Alexander, did you take the model of the lizard from the table? 
ALEXANDER: No, sir. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, I saw Alexander put the model inside of his jacket. 
(Worf checks Alexander's pockets, and find it) 
Lieutenant Worf, personal log, stardate 45376.8. Alexander has acted shamefully, and as his father I must now deal with him. But I find that I would gladly fight ten armed Baldur warriors rather than face one small child. 
[Worf's quarters]
WORF: A Klingon's honour is more important to him than his life. A Klingon would gladly face the most horrible punishment rather than bring shame or disgrace to his family name. His word is his bond. Without it, he is nothing. Do you understand? 
(a tiny nod) 
WORF: Why did you lie to me? 
ALEXANDER: I don't know. 
WORF: Did you fear the punishment you would receive? 
ALEXANDER: I don't know. 
WORF: You don't know why you lied, and yet you did. You don't know why you stole, and yet you did! Alexander, come here. When I was a child, younger than you, I lost my parents, my family, my people. Everything I had was taken from me except my sense of honour. It was the one thing I had which was truly Klingon and which no one could take away. Do you know who they are? 
(a statuette of two semi-naked klingon wrestlers) 
ALEXANDER: Kahless? 
WORF: And his brother, Morath. They fought for twelve days and twelve nights because Morath had broken his word and brought shame to his family. When you lie or steal, you not only dishonour yourself, but your family. You dishonour me. 
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry, Father. I won't do it ever again. I promise. 
WORF: I accept your word. We will not speak of this matter again. 
[Corridor]
TROI: Worf. 
WORF: Counsellor? 
TROI: I just wanted to know how the field trip went yesterday. 
WORF: You have not heard? 
TROI: No. Why? 
[Turbolift]
WORF: Bridge. There was an incident. Alexander stole a small model and then told a falsehood. But I have remedied the situation. 
TROI: May I ask how? 
WORF: I pointed out his error, told him about Kahless and Morath, and explained the value of honour. The boy understood. 
TROI: I see. Sometimes these things aren't over as quickly as they seem to be. I'd be happy to help if you have any further problems. 
WORF: Thank you, that will not be necessary. Alexander will not repeat this mistake. 
[Bridge]
DATA: The prototype has been towed into position, Captain. 
RIKER: Initiate a radio link to the ship. 
LAFORGE: Link established. Receiving prelaunch telemetry now. 
WORF: Incoming message from Doctor Ja'Dar. 
PICARD: On screen. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Captain, we're ready to begin the launch sequence. 
PICARD: Mister Riker? 
RIKER: All science labs standing by. 
FELTON: Course laid in, sir. 
PICARD: The Enterprise is ready, Doctor. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: This is Doctor Ja'Dar to all stations. You may begin the launch sequence. 
PICARD: And Doctor? Good luck. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Thank you, Captain. 
(transmission ends) 
DATA: Sensors indicate the field generators on the planet surface are charging, Captain. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has been initiated. It's heading for the test ship. 
(a blue wave rushes out to the vessel and off they rush) 
DATA: The test ship has successfully entered warp, sir. 
PICARD: Ensign, engage. 
(Enterprise goes to warp) 
PICARD: Ensign, bring us to within twenty kilometres of the test ship. 
FELTON: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: Telemetry looks good. Soliton wave is steady. 
DATA: The test ship is maintaining at warp two point three five, sir. 
LAFORGE: That's a little faster than they anticipated, but still well within mission parameters. 
FELTON: We're at twenty kilometres, Captain. 
PICARD: Mister Data, is the wave affecting our warp drive? 
DATA: No, sir. The effect has been localised to within two kilometres of the wavefront. 
RIKER: Mister La Forge, what is the power efficiency of the wave? 
LAFORGE: Energy transfer is ninety eight percent! 
RIKER: Ninety eight? 
LAFORGE: Yes, sir. There's less than a two percent energy loss between the wave and the ship. 
DATA: That is four hundred and fifty percent more efficient than our own warp drive. 
PICARD: Astonishing. Commander Riker, have science lab three begin a series of gamma emission tests. 
DATA: Sir, the wave's power signature is fluctuating. 
LAFORGE: Wave efficiency has dropped to seventy three percent. 
RIKER: The test ship's warp field is becoming unstable. Sensors show multiple disruptions. 
FELTON: I'm reading a severe subspace distortion, sir. 
DATA: It is expanding toward us, sir. It appears to be interfering with our engines, Captain. 
LAFORGE: I can't compensate for it. 
PICARD: Bring us out of warp, Ensign. All stop. 
FELTON: Aye, sir. All stop. 
RIKER: Damage report. 
(the test ship goes KaBOOM and everyone gets thrown out of their seats) 
PICARD: Hold on! 
RIKER: Damage report. 
LAFORGE: Sensors and warp drive are offline. Deflectors down to fifteen percent. 
WORF: Several injuries reported on deck twenty seven. No fatalities. 
PICARD: What happened to the test ship? 
DATA: Our last readings indicate the craft exploded due to extreme shearing stress. 
WORF: Incoming message from Bilana Three, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Captain, are you all right? Was anyone hurt? 
PICARD: We sustained some minor damage. Do you know what happened? 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: The preliminary data we received indicate a transient power imbalance. 
LAFORGE: That would be consistent with our telemetry readings from the ship. We detected a sudden drop in transfer efficiency just before the explosion. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Are you still tracking the wave? 
LAFORGE: No, the explosion damaged our main sensor array, but I think we'll have it repaired in a couple of hours. 
PICARD: We'll contact you as soon as the sensors are back online. 
LAFORGE: Doctor. You did it. Warp without warp drive. For a while there it was really something to see. 
JA'DAR [on viewscreen]: Well, I hope you're here to see it next time we try, Mister La Forge. 
LAFORGE: So do I, Doctor. 
[Mrs. Kyle's office]
WORF: I apologise. I was detained. 
KYLE: It's quite all right. Please sit down. 
WORF: Thank you. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, your son is a very bright, very spirited young man. From his test scores, I'm sure he'll turn out to be one of my best students. However, from his behaviour in class so far, I do have some concerns. 
WORF: What sort of concerns? 
KYLE: Frankly, he's defiant, he's overly aggressive toward the other students, and he has a great deal of difficulty paying attention. 
WORF: Perhaps you do not have experience dealing with Klingon children. They require a firm hand. 
KYLE: And he seems to still have difficulty telling the truth. He takes toys from other the other students and then denies taking them. He acts like a bully and then says someone else started the fight. And he's bluntly told me you said Klingons do not listen to teachers. 
WORF: I did not tell him that. 
KYLE: No, of course not. He's acting on his internal feelings and then making up stories to explain them. It might be a good idea for the two of you to sit down with Counsellor Troi and 
WORF: Computer, where is Alexander Rozhenko? 
COMPUTER: Alexander Rozhenko is on holodeck four. 
KYLE: Lieutenant, I think we should 
WORF: I will handle this. 
[Corridor]
WORF: Computer, what programme is being run? 
COMPUTER: Calisthenics programme of Lieutenant Worf. Difficulty level, Novice. 
[Holodeck]
(Alexander is on the defensive for most of the time until he gets a lucky swing) 
WORF: Computer, freeze programme. 
ALEXANDER: Did you see it, Father? I won. 
WORF: Yes, I saw. Why are you here? 
ALEXANDER: I'm training. 
WORF: But you did not ask permission to take my bat'leth, or permission to use the holodeck. 
ALEXANDER: You said you wanted me to be a warrior. 
WORF: I also said I wanted you to obey your teachers and keep your promise to me. Ms. Kyle has told me about your behaviour. About your lies. 
ALEXANDER: I have not lied! 
WORF: Alexander, do not continue to 
ALEXANDER: She's lying! She hates me, that's why she makes up stories about me! 
WORF: I will not listen to more lies. Return to our quarters. 
ALEXANDER: You said we could go see the gilvos again. 
WORF: Not now. Not after you have broken your word. 
ALEXANDER: You promised. You said that we could. 
WORF: Enough! It is now clear to me that I have failed in my duties as your father. You have no understanding about what it means to be Klingon. I will arrange for you to attend a Klingon school. There you will learn the lessons I have failed to teach you. 
ALEXANDER: No! I won't go! 
WORF: Would you further dishonour our family with your disobedience? 
ALEXANDER: No, sir. 
WORF: You will go to our quarters and remain there until I return. 
[Bridge]
(at the aft stations) 
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. What's your estimate on the engines, Geordi? 
LAFORGE [OC]: I need another hour, Commander. I still have to replace three power couplings. 
RIKER: Understood. 
DATA: Sir, sensors are coming back online. 
RIKER: Good. Begin a sensor sweep for the soliton wave. 
DATA: Aye, sir. The wave is continuing on course for the Lemma Two colony. It is bearing zero two zero, mark three two nine. 
RIKER: Open a channel back here to Doctor Ja'Dar. 
DATA: Sir, the wave has increased in velocity to warp four point one. 
RIKER: Doctor, we've located the soliton wave. It's still on a course for Lemma Two. However its velocity has increased to warp four point one. 
JA'DAR [on monitor]: Have you checked the frequency resonance of the subspace 
DATA: Sir, the energy level of the wave has increased by a factor of twelve. At this rate, it will have increased by a factor of two hundred by the time it reaches Lemma Two. 
RIKER: Will they still be able to dissipate the wave? 
JA'DAR [on monitor]: Commander, at that energy level, the wave will not only destroy the colony, it'll take most of the planet with it. 
[Troi's office]
TROI: Are you sure this is what you want? 
WORF: It is not a question of what I want. It is a question of what is best for the boy. He will be better off at a Klingon school. 
TROI: Have you discussed this with Alexander? 
WORF: He is a child. I informed him of my decision. 
TROI: I see. 
WORF: You disapprove? 
TROI: I'm not here to approve or disapprove of the way you raise your son. My concern right now is how this decision is going to affect you. How will you feel when Alexander's gone? 
WORF: I will be pleased that he is receiving the guidance he requires. 
TROI: Is that how you felt when he left to live with your parents? 
WORF: That was different. At the time, I felt he needed a home, a family. Things I could not provide for him. 
TROI: I understand. The idea of raising a child can seem a tremendous burden, particularly to a solitary parent. 
WORF: He was no burden. I simply knew that a Klingon child required more attention than I could provide. 
TROI: I see. Have you ever wondered how Alexander felt about being sent away? 
WORF: He was very young. I'm sure he was confused. 
TROI: Do you think he felt abandoned? After all, he left very soon after K'Ehleyr's death. In a way, he not only lost his mother, he lost his father as well. 
WORF: Are you saying that his misconduct is a result of feeling abandoned? 
TROI: It's possible. Children don't have the experience to handle emotional crises. Instead of dealing with their feelings, they act on them. Tell me about the last time you spoke with K'Ehleyr, the night she died. 
WORF: We argued. 
TROI: What about? 
WORF: Alexander. About how she did not tell me about him when he was born. 
TROI: So you were angry with her? 
WORF: Yes. 
TROI: Are you still angry with her? 
WORF: Of course not. 
TROI: It would be very normal to be angry with her. Angry because she died and left you alone with a son you never knew you had. Being angry doesn't mean you loved her any less, Worf, but you can't hide from your feelings, just as Alexander cannot hide from his. You both have a lot of healing to do. Perhaps you should think about doing it together. 
[Worf's quarters]
(Alexander is packing a small suitcase) 
WORF: Alexander. 
ALEXANDER: I'm almost done. 
WORF: Stop for a moment. Let us talk. 
ALEXANDER: Why? 
WORF: I want you to understand why you are going away. 
ALEXANDER: I understand. You're ashamed of me. 
WORF: You do not understand. I'm concerned about your future. A Klingon school will be a better environment for you. 
ALEXANDER: You don't care about me. 
WORF: That is not true. 
ALEXANDER: All you care about is your honour! 
WORF: Alexander. If your mother were here I do not think she would want us to fight like this. 
ALEXANDER: My mother wouldn't send me away. 
RIKER [OC]: Lieutenant Worf, please report to the Observation lounge. 
WORF: Acknowledged. Remain here. I will return shortly. 
(Worf leaves, Alexander throws his suitcase on the floor and storms away) 
[Observation lounge]
PICARD: Report. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in 
(Worf enters) 
WORF: Excuse me. 
LAFORGE: The soliton wave has continued to increase in power. Its energy level has risen by a factor of ninety six. At its current rate of acceleration, the wave should hit the planet in a couple of hours. 
PICARD: How do we stop it? 
LAFORGE: Well, there are two possibilities. We could attempt to use our own warp engines to generate an inverse-resonance wave. If we could match the exact frequency and amplitude of the soliton, we should be able to neutralise it. 
RIKER: You don't sound very confident. 
DATA: Because the soliton is constantly changing in both frequency and amplitude, it will be extremely difficult to achieve an exact match. 
PICARD: Let's hear the second option. 
LAFORGE: It's a little more dangerous, but I think there's a better chance for success. We could create a backfire, an explosive force set off just in front of the soliton wave. A large enough explosion, say five photon torpedoes, should be enough to disrupt the wave and allow it to dissipate. 
PICARD: How fast is the wave travelling now? 
DATA: Warp six point three seven. 
LAFORGE: The good news is we can catch it. The bad news is that in order to set up this backfire we have to be in front of it.;
DATA: Which would require the Enterprise to go through the wave. 
RIKER: Why can't we go around it? 
DATA: The wave has been growing in size as well as power. There is insufficient time remaining for us to circumvent it before it reaches Lemma Two. 
PICARD: How much protection will the shields provide if we attempt to penetrate the wave? 
WORF: The shields have not been fully restored. Shield strength is down to thirty three percent. 
RIKER: It's going to be quite a ride. 
PICARD: It's a better choice. Lay in a course for the soliton wave. 
[Bridge]
PICARD: Ensign, after we've passed through the wave, I want you to take us at a relative position twenty three kilometres in front of it. 
FELTON: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: Alert sickbay to prepare for possible casualties. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
DATA: The wave has increased speed to warp seven point two, Captain. 
PICARD: Ensign, take us to warp seven point two one. 
FELTON: We are approaching the wave, Captain. Distance two hundred kilometres. 
RIKER: Let's see it. 
(the viewscreen is filled with the undulating wave) 
PICARD: Stand by to increase speed to warp seven point three. On my mark. 
RIKER: Red Alert. Load torpedo bays. Set warhead yields to level sixteen. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
RIKER: All deck, this is the Bridge. Brace for impact. 
WORF: Torpedoes loaded. 
PICARD: Engage. 
[Biolab]
(in the deserted lab, Alexander is visiting with the gilvos. He gets thrown to the floor when they hit the wave) 
[Bridge]
PICARD: Report. 
DATA: We have passed through the wave, Captain. 
FELTON: We have dropped to warp seven point two. The wave is directly astern at a distance of twenty three kilometres. 
WORF: Deflector strength is down to twelve percent. There are fluctuations in several warp transfer conduits. Tractor beams and transporters offline. 
RIKER: We have some gaps in the aft shields, Captain. When the torpedoes explode, these areas will be contaminated with ion radiation. We need to evacuate sections twenty four to forty seven, decks thirty five through thirty eight. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
WORF: Sir, there is a fire in biolab four, The fire suppression apparatus is not functioning. 
PICARD: Seal off the compartment. Prepare to vent the air from 
DATA: Sir, there are life forms present in that biolab. 
RIKER: We're transporting endangered animals from Corvan Two. 
DATA: Readings also indicate the presence of a humanoid, Captain. 
PICARD: Computer, identify humanoid life form in biolab four. 
COMPUTER: Life form is identified as Alexander Rozhenko. 
PICARD: Bridge to biolab four. Alexander, can you hear us? 
WORF: Sensors show he is alive. He may be injured. 
RIKER: Can we transport him out of there? 
WORF: Transporters are still offline. 
FELTON: Captain, warp power is dropping. We're losing speed. 
RIKER: Riker to Engineering. Geordi, what is going on? 
[Engineering]
LAFORGE: We lost four warp transfer conduits, Commander. 
RIKER [OC]: The wave is gaining on us. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: We need more speed. 
LAFORGE [OC]: I doubt that I can keep this speed up 
[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Much longer, Commander. You'd better fire those torpedoes while we're still in front of the wave. 
[Bridge]
PICARD: Mister Data, how long before the wave overtakes us? 
DATA: At our current speed, four minutes thirty seconds, sir. 
WORF: Captain, permission to leave the bridge. 
PICARD: Granted. Commander, will you accompany Mister Worf to biolab four. 
DATA: Captain, biolab four is one of the areas that will be flooded with ion radiation. 
PICARD: Commander. I can't let the soliton wave hit the colony. You have three minutes, not one second more. 
[Corridor]
RIKER: Primary control's shorted out. 
(Worf rips a panel from the wall and rearranges chips);
WORF: Stand clear. 
(the door opens and flames burst out before being suppressed) 
[Biolab]
(there are pockets of fire everywhere) 
WORF: Alexander! 
RIKER: Alexander, can you hear me? Alexander? 
[Bridge]
DATA: The soliton wave has closed to ten kilometres, Captain. 
PICARD: Stand by to fire torpedoes on my command. 
[Biolab]
RIKER: Alexander! 
WORF: Commander, I've found him! 
(he is pinned under the remains of something) 
RIKER: Worf! Where are you Worf? 
WORF: Over here. Help me. 
(they try to lift the debris) 
RIKER: It's too heavy. I've got to find something to help us. 
ALEXANDER: Father? 
WORF: Lie still, I am here. 
ALEXANDER: My leg hurts. I'm scared. 
(with a massive paternal adrenalin rush, Worf moves the debris just as Riker returns with a lever. Worf takes Alexander in his arms) 
ALEXANDER: The gilvos! 
RIKER: There's no time. 
ALEXANDER: Please, they'll die! 
[Bridge]
DATA: The wave has closed to one kilometre, Captain. 
PICARD: Picard to Commander Riker. Bridge to Lieutenant Worf, acknowledge. 
DATA: The wave is about to overtake us, sir. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, acknowledge! Fire torpedoes. 
[Corridor]
(they get out just as the torpedoes streak to their target, Riker carrying the gilvos) 
[Bridge]
DATA: The wave has been disrupted, sir. 
PICARD: Picard to Riker. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker here, Captain. We made it 
[Corridor]
RIKER: Sir. The boy's going to be all right. 
[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: You're a very lucky little boy. Just some minor smoke inhalation and a hairline fracture of the tibia. That's a bone in your leg. I'd like to keep him overnight, but he should be fine by tomorrow. 
WORF: Thank you, Doctor. 
(Crusher leaves them) 
ALEXANDER: Are you going to get in trouble because of me? 
WORF: Do not concern yourself with that. 
ALEXANDER: Am I in trouble? 
WORF: Yes, but we will discuss that at a later time. 
ALEXANDER: I'm sorry. I promise I'll be good at the Klingon school. I'll make you proud of me. 
WORF: Klingon schools are designed to be difficult. The physical and mental hardships faced by the students are meant to build character and strength. However, if you wish to face a greater challenge, you may stay here with me. It will not be easy, for either one of us, but perhaps we can face the challenge together. 
ALEXANDER: I accept your challenge, Father. I will stay. 
WORF: I believe your mother would be pleased. 

