Episode Number: 221
The Next Generation Transcripts - The Perfect Mate
The Perfect Mate
Stardate: 45761.3
Original Airdate: 27 Apr, 1992
Captain's log, stardate 45761.3. In an effort to bring an end to their centuries-long war, Krios and Valt Minor have agreed to a Ceremony of Reconciliation, to be held aboard the Enterprise at a point midway between their two systems. 
[Ready room]
PICARD: I apologise for the delay in our arrival, Ambassador Briam. We had to stop at Harod Four to pick up a group of stranded miners. 
BRIAM: Please, Captain, we are grateful that the Federation has taken as much interest as it has in this matter. 
PICARD: Was Commander La Forge able to provide you with the special cargo handling provisions you requested? 
BRIAM: Indeed he was. However, until we reach the rendezvous with the Valtese, may I ask that the cargo bay be declared off-limits to all but the most essential personnel? 
PICARD: I trust, Ambassador, that this cargo is in no way dangerous? 
BRIAM: Oh, no, nothing of the sort. I'm cautious because it's quite fragile, and quite irreplaceable. 
RIKER [OC]: Bridge to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain, we've just picked up a distress call from a Ferengi shuttle. 
PICARD: Set a course to intercept. 
RIKER [OC]: Aye, sir. 
BRIAM: Captain, the timing of our ceremony with Alrik is critical. It cannot be delayed. 
PICARD: We'll be at the rendezvous on schedule, don't worry. Excuse me. 
[Bridge]
DATA: The Ferengi report their containment field is collapsing. 
WORF: Within visual range, Captain. 
PICARD: On screen. 
DATA: Their reactor core is unstable, Captain. 
PICARD: How many on board? 
DATA: Two, sir. 
RIKER: Bridge to transporter room three. Boost your output and lock on to the two Ferengi on board the shuttle. 
[Transporter room]
RIKER [OC]: We may need to attempt a long range transport. 
CREWWOMAN]: Standing by. 
[Bridge]
(there's an explosion on the shuttle) 
PICARD: Energise. 
(KaBOOM) 
[Transporter room]
OFFICER: Got them, sir. 
(one of whom - Lenor - is Max Grodenchik, practising to play Quark's idiot brother, Rom) 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Mister Worf, escort our Ferengi guests to quarters. Not too close to mine. 
WORF: Understood. 
[Corridor]
WORF: Unless you can arrange your own transport, you will have to remain on the Enterprise until we complete our mission. 
QOL: That will not be a problem. 
LENOR: We are in no hurry. 
QOL: We look forward to enjoying the comforts of your fine ship. 
[Ferengi quarters]
QOL: Quite acceptable. Not what we're used to, you understand, but it will do. 
LENOR: Perhaps your captain would care to invite us to join him for dinner this evening? 
WORF: The captain dines alone. 
(Worf leaves) 
QOL: A pity. That was too easy. 
[Corridor]
LAFORGE: We've been working from your drawings, Ambassador. I hope we're in the ballpark. 
BRIAM: Ball park? 
PICARD: That's an old human expression. Mister LaForge hopes that we've got close to achieving what you wanted. 
LAFORGE: Computer, run holodeck programme Krios One. 
COMPUTER: Enter when ready. 
[Holodeck - Temple]
(stonework, a raised altar platform, a central chandelier) 
BRIAM: Astonishing. It is the ancient Temple of Akadar. It is this temple that bonds Krios and Valt, gentlemen. Two brothers ruled a vast empire from this site until they were torn apart by their love for an extraordinary woman. This is where the wars began. And this is where they shall end. 
[Cargo bay]
(Qol sneaks in to view the giant golden glowing egg supported by three golden beams of light.) 
[Holodeck - Temple]
BRIAM: There are some details to be added, of course. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge will be entirely at your disposal, Ambassador. 
[Corridor]
LAFORGE: Just let me know what you need. 
BRIAM: Yes, of course. I must consult several of the historical volumes I brought with me, so perhaps we can reconvene later. 
LENOR: Excuse me! Excuse me! Is it true? Is a Kriosian ambassador aboard this vessel? 
BRIAM: Yes. Can I help you? 
PICARD: The Ambassador's very busy. 
LENOR: Ah, do you schedule his appointments? 
PICARD: I'm the Captain of the ship. What is it you want? 
LENOR: Allow me to present myself. Par Lenor of the Ferengi Trade Mission. We are pleased to hear, Ambassador, that you have at last negotiated peace with the Valtese, Ambassador. Peace is good for trade, unless you happen to be an arms merchant. 
PICARD: Excuse us. 
LENOR: Arms merchant! 
[Cargo bay]
(Qol is rolling barrels near the egg, then he climbs on the rickety pile to get a closer look) 
[Corridor]
LENOR: in return for the exclusive rights to transport all Kriosian products to the Valt system. 
PICARD: May I suggest that you arrange to meet at another time, after the ceremony? 
BRIAM: Perhaps that would be best. 
LENOR: But, but 
(Briam and Picard enter a turbolift as Geordi hustles Lenor away) 
LAFORGE: Listen, have you had a chance to see the dolphins yet? 
[Turbolift]
PICARD: Deck seven. Picard to Worf. 
WORF [OC]: Worf here, Captain. 
PICARD: Lieutenant, one of the Ferengi just waylaid Ambassador Briam. I need you to keep them on a tight leash. 
[Bridge]
PICARD [OC]: I don't want them disrupting this conference. 
WORF: Aye, sir. Security to cargo bay one. 
RIKER: Lieutenant? 
WORF: One of the Ferengi. 
RIKER: Riker to Captain Picard. 
[Cargo bay]
(Qol is on his perch, scanning the glowing egg when Worf and his team enter) 
WORF: What are you doing? 
(Qol looses his balance and falls, knocking a small barrel into the 'legs' of the egg. It falls in extreme slow motion and the golden glow dissipates) 
QOL: This is a misunderstanding. I was looking for a barbershop. Apparently I made an incorrect turn and 
(Picard, Briam and Riker enter) 
PICARD: Mister Worf? 
RIKER: Get him out of here. Confine them both to their quarters. Put a guard on their door. 
(Worf, Qol and security leave) 
PICARD: What is happening? 
BRIAM: Emergence. 
(the egg finally vanishes and a beautiful woman remains. She stands up gracefully, smiles and walks straight to Picard) 
KAMALA: I am for you, Alrik of Valt. 
BRIAM: No, Kamala. This is not Alrik. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Federation Starship Enterprise. 
KAMALA: That explains why you don't look at all like your holographs. I apologise, Captain. As an empath, I could sense your authority. I assumed you were Chancellor Alrik. 
PICARD: I'm afraid I require an explanation, Ambassador. 
KAMALA: As do I, Ambassador. Why have I been brought out of stasis prematurely? 
BRIAM: It was an accident. This is quite complicated. Perhaps you and I 
KAMALA: It is not complicated at all, Briam, and the Captain has no tolerance for prevarication. I'm a gift, to Alrik of Valt. 
RIKER: You mean you're using this ship to transport a sentient being as property? 
BRIAM: Not as property, as a gift, and I was concerned that you might not entirely understand. 
PICARD: Your concern was justified, Ambassador. 
KAMALA: You're angry. Why? 
PICARD: There is a provision in the Federation Constitution that protects an individual's fundamental rights. Now once you were brought aboard this ship 
KAMALA: You're coming to my rescue. What a kind and generous purpose. But Captain, I do not need to be rescued. 
BRIAM: Kamala is the key to peace between our two worlds. 
RIKER: Why? 
KAMALA: In our history there's a woman known as Garuth, who was loved by the brothers Krios and Valt with such passion that an empire fell. 
BRIAM: And the wars began when Krios kidnapped Garuth and took her to our planet. 
KAMALA: Like her, I'm an empathic metamorph. The first female metamorph born in my world for over a hundred years. 
PICARD: A metamorph? 
KAMALA: A mutant. A biological curiosity, if you will. With the ability to sense what a potential mate wants, what he needs, what gives him the greatest pleasure and then to become that for him. 
RIKER: You mean you change according to whatever man you're with? 
KAMALA: Until I reach the stage of bonding, when I must imprint upon myself the requirements of one man, to serve as his perfect partner in life. 
BRIAM: You see, male metamorphs are somewhat common, but females are born only once in seven generations. So obviously they are greatly sought after as mates. 
RIKER: Which explains the Ferengi's interest. 
BRIAM: This mating to Alrik was arranged sine her birth by the leaders of both worlds, in the hopes of restoring peace. 
PICARD: You do this of your own accord? 
KAMALA: It is my sole purpose in life. 
PICARD: Commander Riker, escort her to quarters. There's no need for you to travel in the cargo bay. 
BRIAM: Kamala, remain in your room. I will speak to you shortly. 
[Corridor]
RIKER: Why were you in stasis? 
KAMALA: Metamorphs have a long and complex sexual maturing process. I am in the Finiis'ral, the third and final stage. It can be an uncomfortable transition Not only for me, but for the men around me. 
RIKER: In what way? 
KAMALA: My body is producing an unusually elevated level of what you would call pheromones. The effect can be quite provocative. Perhaps you sense it? 
RIKER: Ah, unfortunately, I'm not an empath. 
KAMALA: Oh, I think you are more empathic than you admit. At least when it comes to women. 
RIKER: I think you have me at a disadvantage. 
[Kamala's quarters]
RIKER: This is the comm. panel, the replicator. You can lower the lights on a verbal command. If you have any questions you can just ask the computer, 
(they kiss) 
RIKER: I'm beginning to sense the elevated pheromones you were referring to. 
KAMALA: You were curious, weren't you? 
RIKER: Curious isn't exactly how I'd describe it. 
KAMALA: Do you know what's remarkable about empathic metamorphs? 
RIKER: You mean there's something even more remarkable about you? 
KAMALA: We learn so quickly what stimulates a man, that the second time's even better than the first. 
(she initiates another long, long, kiss) 
RIKER: Listen. This has been educational but I make it a policy never to open another man's gift. 
KAMALA: I know my role in history, Commander. But it's going to be a long voyage. 
RIKER: It certainly is. We'll try to make you as comfortable as possible. 
[Corridor]
RIKER: Riker to bridge. If you need me, I'll be in holodeck four. 
[Picard's quarters]
(at breakfast, over croissant and fruit juice) 
CRUSHER: How can you simply deliver her like a courier into a life of virtual prostitution. 
PICARD: Beverly! Arranged marriages have been the basis of political alliances in many cultures, including our own. 
CRUSHER: I'm surprised at you. 
PICARD: She knows exactly what she's doing. 
CRUSHER: She has been conditioned since the day she was born to believe it's perfectly acceptable to exist only to please men. 
PICARD: She was born to do this. 
CRUSHER: And bred by those people to seal a treaty with a seductive coup de grace. 
PICARD: All right, fine, good, let's throw the Prime Directive to the winds. Let's detain her against her will. Let's destroy any chance of peace between these worlds. Let's interfere in their society, their customs. 
CRUSHER: That slave trader who calls himself an ambassador, he has confined her to her quarters. She is a virtual prisoner in there. 
PICARD: I didn't know that. 
CRUSHER: Well, it is your ship. Maybe there are a few things you should find out about. 
PICARD: I'll talk to her about it. 
CRUSHER: Good. Lovely breakfast. 
PICARD: Indeed. 
[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: Come in. 
(the door opens and Picard stands there) 
KAMALA: Captain Picard, what a delightful surprise. Come in. 
PICARD: Thank you. Are you comfortable? 
KAMALA: Reasonably, under the circumstances. 
PICARD: It has been brought to my attention that you have been told to remain in here. 
KAMALA: That's true, I'm afraid. 
PICARD: Against your wishes. 
KAMALA: At the request of the Ambassador, who believes I might be disruptive to your crew. 
PICARD: The performance of my crew is none of the Ambassador's business. 
KAMALA: You care about my well being. Thank you, Captain. 
PICARD: I care about, I care about what happens on board my ship. 
KAMALA: Yes, I know. This ship's very important to you, isn't it? 
PICARD: Oh, yes. Oh, yes, it is. 
KAMALA: Are all captains' lives so solitary? Or just yours? 
PICARD: Don't. 
KAMALA: What? 
PICARD: Don't do this, this, this you do with men. 
KAMALA: I'm afraid my premature emergence from stasis has left me a little vulnerable to the desires I sense from men. Nevertheless, this is who I am, Captain. You might as well ask a Vulcan to forgo logic, or a Klingon to be nonviolent. I cannot change, and I don't want to until the time has come for me to bond with my permanent mate. Why does it bother you? 
PICARD: Frankly, it's difficult for me, for many of us, to easily accept that a sentient being can live only to be what someone else wants them to be. 
KAMALA: But that's what gives a metamorph pleasure. 
PICARD: But what about your wishes, your needs? 
KAMALA: They are fulfilled by what I give to others. 
PICARD: And what about when there are no others, when you are alone? 
KAMALA: I'm incomplete. What curious questions, Captain. 
PICARD: Under the circumstances, I thought that it would help if I learned more about you. 
KAMALA: But you know me better than you realise. I am independent, forceful, brilliant, and adventurous. Exactly as you would have me be, Captain. 
PICARD: I will speak to the Ambassador about easing your restrictions. 
KAMALA: Thank you, Captain. 
Captain's log, stardate 45766.1. We have reached the designated coordinates for the conference and await the arrival of Chancellor Alrik. 
[Holodeck - Temple]
(Briam is playing a form of xylophone, or trying to) 
BRIAM: I forbid it. 
PICARD: Forbid it? 
BRIAM: It's too dangerous, Captain. She must remain in her quarters. 
PICARD: You cannot confine her against her will. Not on board this ship, Ambassador. She is requesting some freedom of movement and I intend to give it to her. 
BRIAM: She is still in the Finiis'ral, the height of her sexual allure, Captain. Every man on the ship will be fighting over her. 
PICARD: Not every man. 
[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: A chaperone? 
DATA: I would be pleased to escort you around the ship. 
KAMALA: But I was hoping we might spend more time together, Captain. 
PICARD: I shall busy making arrangements for the conference. 
KAMALA: I'm very knowledgeable about Valt. I could be helpful. 
PICARD: I think that you should enjoy the hospitality of the ship. Mister Data here will see to your every comfort. If you will excuse me. 
[Corridor]
DATA: Your empathic powers do not perceive anything because as an android, I have no emotions. 
KAMALA: I can understand why Captain Picard chose you to be my chaperone. 
[Ten Forward]
(as predicted, all male eyes turn to Kamala, and she loves it) 
RIKER: (to Worf) I'll check in with you later. 
(Riker leaves) 
MINER 1: Excuse me, but I'm absolutely certain that we met once at Paloris Colony. 
KAMALA: I've never been to Paloris Colony. 
MINER 1: Neither have I. Why don't we find out what else we have in common. 
DATA: Extremely rude behaviour. 
KAMALA: He's just being playful. 
DATA: Perhaps you would care for something to drink? 
KAMALA: What are you all having, boys? 
MINER 2: Aldorian Ale's our drink. 
KAMALA: Then, it's mine too. 
DATA: Bartender! 
DATA: There do not seem to be enough waiters on duty. 
MINER 3: I believe they're having a minor problem with the replicator. 
MINER 2: They could use a hand, Commander. 
DATA: Excuse me. I believe I will stay. 
KAMALA: Mister Data's protecting me tonight. 
MINER 2: Protecting you? From what? 
KAMALA: From you, I guess. I told the Captain not to worry, I just want to have a good time like anybody else. 
MINER 1: Come on down to deck seven, we'll show you a good time 
MINER 2: Get rid of the android. We'll have some fun. 
WORF: Is there a problem here? 
MINER 1: No, sir. 
MINER 2: No problem.
MINER 3: Tell him, lady. 
DATA: Thank you, Lieutenant. The crowd seemed a bit too ebullient for comfort. Perhaps you would enjoy a quiet visit to the arboretum. 
(Data leads Kamala away, then she turns and growls. Data hauls her out of the room before Worf growls back and then catches himself) 
[Ready room]
KAMALA: Perhaps the ambassador is right. Perhaps I should remain in my quarters. 
PICARD: I have confidence in the self-control of my crew, Kamala, but there are guests and civilians on board. 
KAMALA: I understand. I will volunteer to stay in my quarters under one condition. That you will visit me. There it is again. 
PICARD: What? 
KAMALA: The wall you put between us. 
PICARD: Kamala, you are one day away from an arranged mating. Why would you want me to visit you in your quarters? 
KAMALA: I said a visit. I didn't ask you to make love to me. 
(she picks up one of his artefacts and sits in his chair) 
KAMALA: Ventanan thimble. Early Lapeongical period, isn't it? 
PICARD: Yes, it is. 
KAMALA: Have you seen the Ventanan woven art recovered from the fourth colony dig? 
PICARD: Woven art? Recovered intact? 
KAMALA: They say the colours are remarkably vibrant for their age. 
PICARD: I've read about them for years, but they were so delicate no one expected to find any preserved. How do you know about them? 
KAMALA: I stay informed on a wide variety of subjects. After all, one never knows when the conversation might turn to Ventanan archeology or to the dark woman of raven brows and mournful eyes in Shakespeare's sonnets. Or to the gardens of Les Eyries near the village where you grew up. 
PICARD: Your empathic powers told you all this about me? 
KAMALA: Not quite that much. Mister Data helped a little. 
PICARD: I see. 
KAMALA: My empathic powers can only sense a man of deep passion, and conviction. So controlled. So disciplined. I am simply curious to know what lies beneath. 
PICARD: Nothing. Nothing lies beneath. I'm really quite dull. I fall asleep each night with an old book in my hands. 
KAMALA: When a metamorph finds you interesting, do not take it lightly. 
PICARD: Oh, I'm not taking it lightly. I'm just trying to be as dull as possible. 
KAMALA: Will you visit me? 
PICARD: It would be inappropriate. 
KAMALA: Is that a yes or a no? 
PICARD: I'm sorry. 
KAMALA: Even the walls of Jericho fell, Captain. 
PICARD: Why are you doing this, Kamala? 
KAMALA: There can be only one reason. Because some part of you wants me to. 
[Ferengi quarters]
(Briam walks in, with coins in his hand) 
LENOR: Ambassador. 
BRIAM: What is the meaning of this? 
LENOR: Ah, I see you got our message. 
BRIAM: Is this some sort of bribe? I am not amused. 
QOL: No, Ambassador. Your attitude is quite understandable. 
LENOR: This is just a sample. 
QOL: The bribe is ten thousand more. 
LENOR: Ludugial gold. The purest in the galaxy. 
QOL: We know the lifestyle of a Kriosian Ambassador is far from comfortable. 
LENOR: You deserve to live a life of luxury. 
BRIAM: How dare you suggest 
(He throws the coins on the floor) 
QOL: Our money! What? You drive a hard bargain. 
LENOR: Twenty thousand, but not an ingot more. 
QOL: We must have the metamorph. 
LENOR: She is the answer to a Ferengi prayer. 
QOL: We have a ship waiting to rendezvous with us in three hours. We can all transport off together. 
BRIAM: Thank you for sharing that information. I shall pass on along to Captain Picard. 
LENOR: You can't do that. 
BRIAM: Let go of me. 
(The pair haul Briam away from the door and he is thrown into a glass table, which of course shatters) 
Captain's log, supplemental. The Ferengi have been dispatched via shuttle to Starbase one one seven. What charges will be brought against them depends on whether or not Ambassador Briam recovers. 
[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: We've been able to stabilise his condition. If we're lucky he'll regain consciousness in a few days. Set up level one cranio-sacral display. 
MEDIC [OC]: Yes, Doctor. 
PICARD: I'll advise the Valtese delegation that the conference will have to be postponed. 
KAMALA: That won't be possible. My ability to imprint on a mate will only last a matter of hours after the completion of the Finiis'ral. 
If I hadn't been removed from stasis prematurely, a delay might have been possible. But now, I will have to bond with Alrik within two days. 
PICARD: But there are points in the negotiations that Briam still has to address. 
KAMALA: You are familiar with the issues. 
PICARD: Familiar, yes, but I can't represent your peoples' interests. 
KAMALA: You can represent the interests of peace. My people will agree, I'm certain of it. 
PICARD: But there are customs and rituals of which I have no experience at all. 
KAMALA: I told you, I'm extremely knowledgeable about Valt. I will help you prepare. 
[Holodeck - Temple]
(Kamala is showing Picard how to play the xylophone);
KAMALA: Torze qua. 
(he plays the chords and notes) 
KAMALA: That's right. 
PICARD: I'm reminded of piano lessons when I was a child. Preparing for some dreaded recital. 
KAMALA: You still play? 
PICARD: No. I regret that I gave it up. It used to please my mother. But I didn't like performing in front of an audience. 
KAMALA: Shy? 
PICARD: No. Just not very good. 
KAMALA: Thank you. For letting down your guard, if only for a moment. 
PICARD: You will have to help me in the pronunciation of this scroll. 
KAMALA: What is it about me you fear? 
PICARD: Kamala. 
KAMALA: Do you find me unattractive? 
PICARD: I find you unavailable. 
KAMALA: I'm being terribly selfish. I apologise. We have something in common, Captain. When I was a child, I took music lessons, too. 
PICARD: Really? What instrument? 
KAMALA: All of them. 
PICARD: The entire orchestra? 
KAMALA: Plus a few Valtese horns that sound like braying Targhee Moonbeasts. They are said to soothe the nerves of Valtese men. My mother never even heard me play. I was taken from her when I was four and sequestered in a royal village where I was prepared to fulfill my destiny. 
PICARD: It sounds as if it were a very lonely time for you. 
KAMALA: On the contrary, I had servants and tutors at my side constantly. You once asked me what I'm like when I'm alone. I've never been. There was always somebody there to educate me in literature, history, art, sex. But I have been alone on this journey, and I've found myself thinking about all the curious questions you asked. You wanted to know who I am. And as I continue to ask myself, the only answer that comes to me is, I am for you, Alrik of Valt. Because that's the truth. In a day, I will bond with a man I've never met. and I will turn myself into what he wants me to be, for the rest of my life. 
PICARD: I also once asked you if you were doing this of your own accord. 
KAMALA: I'm honoured to be chosen to serve my people as an emissary of peace. But I find it ironic on the eve of this ceremony, which I have spent my entire life preparing for, that I should meet a man like you. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Picard. 
PICARD: Go ahead, Number One. 
RIKER [OC]: The Valtese ship has arrived. Chancellor Alrik is ready to beam aboard. 
[Observation lounge]
(a wiry man with a shock of red hair is there. He comes across as a man not really interested in women) 
ALRIK: Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Chancellor Alrik. Welcome aboard the Enterprise. 
ALRIK: Your First Officer has described the details of the incident with the Ferengis. How is the Ambassador? 
PICARD: He has not regained consciousness. 
ALRIK: A tragedy. Your willingness to assist is appreciated by both our peoples. 
PICARD: I', doing my best, although I'm finding some of the rituals quite demanding. 
ALRIK: Rituals. I am more concerned about the remaining provisions of the treaty. The proposed trade agreements are not acceptable. We still must review the uncommitted territories as well as discuss the schedule for exchange of technology. 
PICARD: The Kriosians have authorised me to make several compromises favourable to your position. 
ALRIK: Good. Tomorrow, then. 
PICARD: Briam has supervised a reproduction of the ancient Temple of Akadar on our holodeck. 
ALRIK: Such a sentimental people, these Kriosians. It's hard to believe we have a common ancestry. 
PICARD: Please. 
ALRIK: I suppose they've sent the metamorph. 
PICARD: Kamala? Yes. She's looking forward to meeting you. 
ALRIK: I'm sure she'll be satisfactory. Between you and me, Captain, I am far more interested in the trade agreements. 
[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: So tell me quickly. What is he like? 
PICARD: First impressions? He's a thoughtful man. Informed. 
KAMALA: Did he ask about me? 
PICARD: Yes. 
KAMALA: What did you tell him? 
PICARD: That you were looking forward to meeting him. 
KAMALA: When am I to be presented? 
PICARD: It'll be the first order of business tomorrow. At ten. 
KAMALA: Would you like some tea? 
PICARD: Thank you, but I should prepare for the ceremony. 
KAMALA: Let me help you with pronunciations. 
PICARD: I think I can muddle my way through. 
KAMALA: Please don't leave. Talk to me. I love the sound of your voice. I'll turn out the lights and just listen. I don't want to be alone. 
PICARD: The lights stay on. 
KAMALA: Earl Grey Tea. Hot. 
PICARD: Did you learn that from Commander Data as well? I shall have to have a talk with him. 
(they sit) 
PICARD: Now that I know that you're listening to my voice, I find that I can't think of anything to say. 
KAMALA: A starship captain must encounter all sorts of lifeforms. Am I one of the most unique you've ever met? Please say yes. 
PICARD: Yes. 
KAMALA: What a nice thing to say. 
(she strokes his smooth bald pate) 
PICARD: Kamala, have I not done everything possible to discourage this? 
KAMALA: Maybe that's the perfect way to attract a metamorph. 
PICARD: I don't want to use you as other men do. 
KAMALA: But you're not other men. You could never use me. That's the very reason why I'm with you tonight. 
PICARD: I should go. And you have an appointment tomorrow morning early. 
KAMALA: Light years away. 
[Picard's quarters]
(Beverly pours the hot beverage) 
CRUSHER: Quiet this morning. 
PICARD: I'm sorry. 
CRUSHER: Penny? 
PICARD: What? 
CRUSHER: For your thoughts. Penny for your thoughts. 
PICARD: Do you have one? 
CRUSHER: I'm sure the replicator will have one on file. 
PICARD: Beverly, may I take off the uniform for a moment? 
CRUSHER: Captain. 
PICARD: I need to talk to a friend. 
CRUSHER: Of course. 
PICARD: Actually, it's all your fault. 
CRUSHER: Mine? 
PICARD: You insisted I look into her situation. 
CRUSHER: The metamorph? 
PICARD: The metamorph. Kamala. I've spent quite a lot of time with her the past few days, and you're right about several things, but, Beverly, her entire existence has been orchestrated for this moment and she intends to go through with it to help her people end the war. 
CRUSHER: And you're saying there's nothing you can do about it? 
PICARD: It isn't that simple. I barely know who she is, and who she is changes the moment the next man comes into the room. 
And I find myself hoping that the next man won't come in. But, of course, he does, and in a few hours, the ceremony will begin and she will mate with a man who cares more about trade agreements than he cares about her. And I can't help thinking how she will be with him. How she will change to accommodate him. 
CRUSHER: I wish I knew how I could help. 
PICARD: Perhaps I just needed a shoulder. 
CRUSHER: Oh, it's there for you, Jean-Luc. It always has been. 
[Kamala's quarters]
KAMALA: Come in. 
(Picard is there in his dress uniform, she's in her wedding dress) 
KAMALA: Is it time? 
PICARD: Soon. 
KAMALA: Do you have any questions about the ceremony? 
PICARD: Many. 
KAMALA: I will never truly love him. 
PICARD: You've not even met him. 
KAMALA: It no longer matters. I wish I could convey to you what it's like to be a metamorph. To feel the inner strength of someone. To realise that being with him is opening your mind and heart to endless new possibilities. To hear yourself say, I like myself when I'm with him. 
PICARD: Kamala. 
KAMALA: For a metamorph there's no greater pleasure and no greater wish than to bond with that kind of mate at the end of the Finiis'ral, as I've bonded with you. 
PICARD: With me? 
KAMALA: Who I am today, I will be forever. 
DATA [OC]: Data to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: Not now, Data. 
DATA [OC]: But sir, Chancellor Alrik is waiting to receive you in holodeck seven. 
PICARD: Acknowledged. You can't go through with the ceremony. 
KAMALA: Would you ask me to stay and ask two armies to keep fighting? Having bonded with you, I've learned the meaning of duty. He'll never know. I'm still empathic. I will be able to please him. I only hope he likes Shakespeare. 
[Holodeck - Temple]
(Picard leads Kamala down the steps and hands her to Alrik) 
KAMALA: I am for you, Alrik of Valt. 
(and the newly-weds kiss gently) 
[Transporter room]
BRIAM: Your service to both our peoples is greatly appreciated, Captain. 
PICARD: Your preparations made the negotiations simple, Ambassador, and Kamala was able to guide me through the rituals. 
BRIAM: I have to admit, I'm curious. 
PICARD: Curious? 
BRIAM: I was chosen for this mission for a very simple reason. I'm two hundred years old. The temptations of a beautiful metamorph do not easily reach me. And yet I would be lying if I were to claim, that even at my age, they do not reach me at all. But you, you worked with her, side by side for days. How could you resist her? 
PICARD: Ambassador, have a safe trip home. 
BRIAM: Energise. 

