Episode Number: 207
The Next Generation Transcripts - Unification Part 2
Unification Part 2
Stardate: 45245.8
Original Airdate: 11 Nov, 1991
(Gene Roddenberry, 1921 - 1991) 
Last time on Star Trek, the Next Generation
BRACKETT: Three weeks ago, one of our most celebrated Ambassadors, an advisor to Federation leaders for generations, disappeared. 
SAREK: I gave Spock the benefit of experience, of logic. He never listened. 
PICARD: It's been suggested that Spock might have defected.
RIKER: Why would anyone want a Vulcan shield array? 
LAFORGE: Beats me, Commander. Every question we answer here seems to bring up two more.
K'VADA: Be careful, android. Some Romulan beauty might take a liking to you. Lick that paint right off your ears. You. Do you know what the Romulans will do to you if they discover who you are?
PICARD: I have a good idea. 
WORF: Sir, the ship is locking phasers.
RIKER: Shields up. Red alert.
NERAL: What do you know of this human? Jean-Luc Picard, a Starfleet Captain. 
PICARD: You've made a mistake.
ROMULAN 1: Quiet. Come with us. 
PICARD: I have come on an urgent mission from the Federation. I'm looking for Ambassador Spock.
SPOCK: You have found him, Captain Picard. 
And now, the conclusion.
[Romulan caves]
SPOCK: What are you doing on Romulus? 
PICARD: That was to have been my question of you, sir. 
SPOCK: It is no concern of Starfleet. 
PICARD: On the contrary, it is very much Starfleet's concern. You're in a position to compromise the security of the Federation. 
SPOCK: You may assure your superiors, Captain, that I am here on a personal mission of peace, and I will advise Starfleet when it is appropriate. 
PICARD: That is not satisfactory. 
SPOCK: You cannot remain here, Captain Picard.
PICARD: And I will not return without a full explanation. Ambassador, with great respect for all that you've achieved on behalf of the Federation, this sort of cowboy diplomacy will not easily be tolerated any more. 
SPOCK: Cowboy diplomacy? 
PICARD: If you wish to undertake a mission with obvious repercussions to the Federation, then you should discuss it with the Federation. I'm here as their representative. You'll have to discuss it with me.
SPOCK: That is precisely what I had hoped to avoid.
PICARD: I also have the responsibility of being the bearer of unhappy news.
SPOCK: Sarek? Sarek is dead? Walk with me, Picard. 
[Romulan cavern]
(a sort of living quarters adjoining the cave) 
SPOCK: I know of your mind-meld with my father which enabled him to complete his last mission.
PICARD: It was an honour. He is a great man.
SPOCK: He was a great representative of the Vulcan people and of the Federation.
PICARD: I was with him before coming here. He expressed his pride in you. His love.
SPOCK: Emotional disarray was a symptom of the illness from which he suffered.
PICARD: No, those feelings came from his heart, Spock. He shared them with me. I know.
SPOCK: Sarek would no more approve my coming here than you do, Picard. For some time now, I've been aware of a growing movement here of people who seek to learn the ideals of the Vulcan philosophy. They've been declared enemies of the state. But there are a few in the Romulan hierarchy like Pardek, who are sympathetic. He asked me to come now, because he believes it may be time to take the first step toward reunification.
PICARD: Reunification? After so many centuries? After so many fundamental differences have evolved between your peoples?
SPOCK: It would seem unlikely to succeed, but I cannot ignore the potential rewards that a union between our two worlds would bring.
PICARD: What is this first step that Pardek suggests?
SPOCK: There is a new Proconsul in the Romulan Senate. He is young and idealistic. He has promised many reforms. Pardek believes that he may be receptive to discussing reunification.
PICARD: Why would you not bring something so important to the attention of your own people or the Federation?
SPOCK: A personal decision, Captain. Perhaps you are aware of the small role I played in the overture to peace with the Klingons.
PICARD: History is aware of the role you played, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Not entirely. It was I who committed Captain Kirk to that peace mission, and I who had to bear the responsibility for the consequences to him and his crew. Quite simply, I am unwilling to risk anyone's life but my own on this occasion. So I ask you respect my wishes and leave. 
PICARD: Ambassador, your logic escapes me. If I didn't know better, I would say that your judgment is influenced by your emotions.
SPOCK: You speak as my father would if he were here, Picard. 
PICARD: I speak as a Starfleet officer, and I cannot ignore the risks to you. 
SPOCK: I was involved with cowboy diplomacy, as you describe it, long before you were born.
PICARD: Nevertheless, sir, I'm not prepared to leave until your affairs are completed.
SPOCK: In your own way, you are as stubborn as another Captain of the Enterprise I once knew.
PICARD: Then I'm in good company, sir. 
[Klingon bridge]
K'VADA: We have more important things to attend to than acting as your nursemaids.
DATA: Captain Picard regrets detaining you, but it will be necessary for a while longer. In addition, I require access to your ship's computer. 
K'VADA: Access to our computer? For what purpose?
DATA: I am going to attempt to penetrate the Romulan Central Information net.
K'VADA: Don't bother. We've been trying for years.
DATA: I have unique skills that may allow me to succeed.
K'VADA: I cannot reveal classified Klingon entry codes to Starfleet. 
DATA: Your entry codes can be easily reconfigured after we depart. And Captain Picard has authorised me to share with you any information we obtain from the Romulan databanks. 
K'VADA: Anything else?
DATA: We will also need to communicate with the Enterprise in sector two thirteen.
K'VADA: You do and the Romulans will instantly know our co-ordinates.
DATA: Using conventional means, that would be true. However, I suggest we piggy-back our signal on Romulan subspace transmissions.
K'VADA: Piggy-back?
DATA: A human metaphor, pardon me. We would use a Romulan signal as a carrier for own one, thus disguising its origin.
K'VADA: It won't work.
DATA: I believe it would. During the last hour, I have conducted a systematic review of the entire Romulan subspace grid. I have compared my findings with the specifications of your own transmission array. They appear to be compatible.
(K'Vada agrees) 
DATA: Thank you for your co-operation. 
[Romulan street]
(a young boy hands a pink orchid-like flower to the soldier, who is now out of uniform) 
[Cafe]
(the soldier puts the flower in a glass) 
ROMULAN 1: Allow me to brighten your table. Jolan tru.
SPOCK: The Senate has adjourned. Pardek will be here shortly.
PICARD: How widespread is this movement?
SPOCK: There are groups in every populated area. I've personally spoken with members from four provinces. It has become a serious concern for the Romulan leadership.
PICARD: Serious enough for the leaders to suddenly embrace a Vulcan peace initiative? I have some difficulty in accepting that.
SPOCK: I sense you have a closed mind, Captain. Closed minds have kept these two worlds apart for centuries. In the Federation, we have learned from experience to view the Romulans with distrust. We can either choose to live with that enmity or seek an opportunity to change it. I choose the latter. 
PICARD: I will be the first to cheer when the Neutral Zone is abolished. But I wonder if this movement is strong enough to reshape the entire Romulan political landscape.
SPOCK: One can begin to reshape the landscape with a single flower, Captain.
D'TAN: Jolan Tru, Mister Spock. Here, look what I've brought you. 
(it is a small book) 
SPOCK: This is my friend, D'Tan. He's very curious about Vulcan. 
PICARD: Hello, D'Tan. 
SPOCK: Where did you get this? This is very old. 
D'TAN: They read to us from it at the meetings. It tells the story of the Vulcan separation. 
PARDEK: D'Tan, you should not bring that out here. You've been told many times. 
D'TAN: I just wanted to show it to Mister Spock. 
PARDEK: Off with you. We'll see you later tonight. 
D'TAN: Will you tell us more stories about Vulcan?
SPOCK: Yes, I will. 
D'TAN: Jolan Tru.
PARDEK: Perhaps this is not such a good place to talk. 
[Romulan street]
PARDEK: So, what do you think of your enemy, Captain Picard?
PICARD: These people are no one's enemy, Senator.
PARDEK: Many of my colleagues fear what they have to say. But I have learned to listen carefully. Children like D'Tan are our future. Old men like me will not be able to hold on to ancient prejudice and hostility. Young people won't allow it. But now, now that they've met their first real Vulcan, it has only inspired them more. I am sure that is evident to you, Spock. 
SPOCK: I did not anticipate such a passionate response to my arrival.
PARDEK: Romulans are passionate people. The Vulcans will learn to appreciate that quality in us.
SPOCK: If we are successful.
PARDEK: We will know soon. The Proconsul has agreed to meet with you. 
First Officer's log, stardate 45245.8. The Enterprise remains at Qualor Two as we continue to investigate the theft of a surplus Vulcan ship. The trail has led us to the former wife of a deceased smuggler. 
[Piano bar]
(Riker takes a drink from the tray of a Zakdorn waiter, and goes over to a large, four-armed lady piano player) 
AMARIE: A new face.
RIKER: Same one I've always had.
AMARIE: And what would you like to hear?
RIKER: Know some blues?
AMARIE: Look at me, Mister. What do you think? Seven different shades of them. How about some Andorian blues? Suck salt?
RIKER: Never cared for it.
AMARIE: Good for you. Nasty habit. So who are you looking for?
RIKER: Who says I'm looking for anybody?
AMARIE: Your face. Your uniform. In a place like this.
RIKER: Okay. I'm looking for you.
AMARIE: Oh, you just made my day.
RIKER: I have to ask you about your husband.
AMARIE: Well, it was nice while it lasted. Which husband?
RIKER: The dead one, I'm afraid.
AMARIE: Oh, you must be from the Enterprise. You destroyed his ship.
RIKER: He was into some bad business. He took the evidence with him.
AMARIE: His one endearing quality, he always cleaned up after himself. And what do you want from me?
RIKER: I was hoping you might know his business partners.
AMARIE: And why should I help you?
RIKER: To be honest, I can't think of a good reason.
AMARIE: Well, you did kill my ex-husband, and that's not a bad start. So why don't you drop a few coins in the jar and I'll see what I remember.
RIKER: I don't carry money.
AMARIE: Well, you don't offer much, do you?
RIKER: Move over.
AMARIE: Oh, just what I need. Another set of hands.
RIKER: You know this one? Twentieth century, Earth. Maybe I can teach you a lick or two.
AMARIE: You already have.
RIKER: So, what do you say?
AMARIE: You going to be around for a couple of days?
RIKER: I can be.
AMARIE: Sooner or later, a man named Omag will come by for a song. Always wants to hear the same thing, Melor Famagal. (she shudders) He's an arms trader. A fat Ferengi. 
[Romulan office]
NERAL: Enter.
PARDEK: Proconsul?
NERAL: Yes. Pardek, come in. 
PARDEK: Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. 
SPOCK: Proconsul.
NERAL: Please. I've never liked titles since I was a lowly Uhlan in the Romulan guard. I am Neral. How is it again, Pardek's tried to show me.
(they swap hand gestures) 
SPOCK: I am honoured.
NERAL: Good.
PARDEK: Permit me to withdraw.
NERAL: Will we see you and your wife tomorrow at the state dinner?
PARDEK: We're looking forward to it.
(Pardek leaves) 
NERAL: It's been years since old Pardek's been invited to an official function. He's far too attached to the common man for most peoples' comfort.
SPOCK: That is their loss. I have found Pardek to have a unique insight into many issues.
NERAL: Let me tell you something, Spock. We're going to start something here, you and I, that will redraw the face of the quadrant.
SPOCK: Are you prepared to support reunification?
NERAL: I believe it must eventually come. Our two worlds need each other.
SPOCK: Forgive me, I did not expect to hear a Romulan Proconsul speak like a member of your underground.
NERAL: I want you to know exactly where I stand.
SPOCK: And do you believe that you can gain the support of your full Senate?
NERAL: Things are not what they once were in the Senate. The old leaders have lost the respect of the people. Involvement in the Klingon War, endless confrontations with the Federation, they're tired of it. Times are changing, and leaders who refuse to change with them will no longer be leaders. Spock, I am prepared to publicly endorse the opening of talks between our peoples. What do you think the Vulcan people think of that?
SPOCK: They will be cautious. There are generations of distrust to overcome.
NERAL: But surely with a man of your influence leading the way?
WOMAN [OC]: Proconsul, the Senate has been recalled into session.
NERAL: Very well. Can we meet again tomorrow?
SPOCK: As you wish.
NERAL: Good. Jolan tru, Spock. Oh. Live long and prosper. 
[Romulan caves]
ROMULAN 1: It's everything we could have hoped for. 
SPOCK: It is more than we could have hoped for.
PARDEK: But if Neral is ready to publicly endorse reunification. 
PICARD: It's hard to believe that he could rise to the rank of Senate Proconsul without the support of the Romulan traditionalists.
PARDEK: That may be true.
PICARD: Then how can he turn his back on them so easily? How can he endorse reunification when it's considered subversive?
ROMULAN 1: Because he's not afraid of them. He knows that we'll support him. 
SPOCK: Captain Picard is correct. It is not logical for the Proconsul to support reunification at this time.
WOMAN 2: Why would Neral lie?
PICARD: Perhaps because he's hoping to expose members of your movement. 
WOMAN 2: No, this is our chance for acceptance. Finally to be heard.
ROMULAN 1: I believe it's the Federation that fears an alliance between Romulus and Vulcan.
PICARD: That is not true. 
SPOCK: I came here to determine the potential for reunification. In spite of what has occurred, I intend to continue with my efforts. I intend to meet with the Proconsul as planned. 
[Romulan cavern]
PICARD: You let their emotion sway you. 
SPOCK: On the contrary, I am pursuing the most logical course.
PICARD: You are as sceptical as I am. Is it logical to ignore your own good sense?
SPOCK: I fear the influence of Sarek has coloured your attitudes, Captain, toward reunification and perhaps toward me.
PICARD: That is the second time you have accused me of speaking with another man's voice. It's true he will always be a part of me. His experiences, his spirit. But I speak with my own voice, not his.
SPOCK: Curious that I should hear him so clearly now that he is dead. It is possible that I have brought my argument with Sarek to you, Captain. If so, I apologise.
PICARD: Is it so important that you to win one last argument?
SPOCK: No, it is not. But it is true that I will miss the arguments. They were, finally, all that we had.
PICARD: But your fight with Sarek is over, Spock, and you have none with me.
SPOCK: I always had a different vision than my father. The ability to see beyond pure logic. He considered it weak, but I have discovered it to be a source of extraordinary strength. Sarek would have seen this mission of reunification as a fool's errand, but somehow I think it is not. Logic cannot explain why, I know that I must pursue this. 
PICARD: Even if it leads you into a Romulan trap. 
SPOCK: If the Romulans do have an ulterior motive, it is in the interests of all concerned that we determine what it is. So, I will play the role that they would have me play. 
[Klingon quarters]
(Data is back to his android self when Spock and Picard enter) 
PICARD: Have you had any success, Mister Data?
DATA: Negative, Captain. The Romulan Information net employs a progressive encryption lock. I have been unable to penetrate their security measures.
SPOCK: May I assist you, Commander? I have had some experience in these matters.
DATA: By all means, Ambassador.
SPOCK: The Romulans have incorporated a forty three part cipher key into their entry sequence. 
DATA: Yes, sir, the twenty ninth is the only one I cannot bypass. 
PICARD: I think I'll take this opportunity to remove my ears. 
(Picard leaves) 
SPOCK: He intrigues me, this Picard.
DATA: In what manner, sir?
SPOCK: Remarkably analytical and dispassionate, for a human. I understand why my father chose to mind-meld with him. There's almost a Vulcan quality to the man.
DATA: Interesting. I have not considered that. And Captain Picard has been a role model in my quest to be more human.
SPOCK: More human?
DATA: Yes, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Fascinating. You have an efficient intellect, superior physical skills and no emotional impediments. There are Vulcans who aspire all their lives to achieve what you've been given by design.
DATA: You are half human. 
SPOCK: Yes.
DATA: Yet you have chosen a Vulcan way of life. 
SPOCK: I have.
DATA: In effect, you have abandoned what I have sought all my life.
SPOCK: I believe I have isolated the twenty ninth cipher access code. I shall attempt to access the Proconsul's files.
DATA: Ambassador Spock, may I ask a personal question?
SPOCK: Please.
DATA: As you examine your life, do you find you have missed your humanity?
SPOCK: I have no regrets.
DATA: No regrets. That is a human expression.
SPOCK: Yes. Fascinating. 
[Piano bar]
WORF: Do you know any Klingon opera?
AMARIE: I don't get a lot of requests for it.
WORF: Surely, you must know at least one theme from Aktuh and Maylota.
AMARIE: I may be a little rusty. 
(with a pounding discord, she starts to sing an aria, and Worf joins in. A fat Ferengi enters with a tall thin female on each arm) 
OMAG: What is that dreadful noise? It sounds like a Bardakian pronghorn moose. You know what I want to hear.
AMARIE: Yes, yes, I know. 
WORF: Worf to Enterprise. 
RIKER [OC]: Go ahead. 
WORF: A fat Ferengi 
[Bridge]
WORF [OC]: Has just entered the establishment.
RIKER: Is that Melor Famagal I hear?
WORF [OC]: It is.
RIKER: I'm on my way. 
[Piano bar]
OMAG: Where's the waiter? Is there a waiter in this sorry place?
RIKER: Is there a problem?
OMAG: Yes. I need more napkins.
RIKER: Use your sleeve.
OMAG: What did you say?
RIKER: Or use one of their sleeves, I don't care.
OMAG: Who are you?
RIKER: Commander William Riker, USS Enterprise.
OMAG: Am I supposed to stand up and salute?
RIKER: We're investigating the disappearance of a Vulcan ship. 
OMAG: Well you've got the wrong Ferengi. I never trade in Vulcan ships. 
RIKER: We know that you're involved. 
OMAG: Who would want a Vulcan ship? Vulcans are pacifists. I deal in warships. Can somebody get me a napkin?
RIKER: Who would want a Vulcan ship?
OMAG: Hypothetically speaking? 
RIKER: Hypothetically speaking.
OMAG: I never learned to speak hypothetical.
(so Riker tips Omag's dinner onto his lap then grabs him by his lapels) 
OMAG: Are you crazy?
RIKER: Let me explain what'll happen to you if you don't tell me about the Vulcan ship. Your right of passage through this sector will be revoked and more than that, I will be very unhappy.
OMAG: I delivered it to a Barolian freighter. 
RIKER: At what coordinates?
OMAG: I don't remember. Ow! Watch it! You're stretching my neck.
RIKER: Co-ordinates?
OMAG: At Galorndon Core. Near the Neutral Zone. That's all I know. I swear it.
RIKER: Enjoy your dinner. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: As soon as I heard this Barolian ship was at the Galorndon Core, I started to think Romulans. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: And the Romulans are suddenly very interested in bonding with the Vulcans. Spock has been meeting with the new Senate Proconsul about reunification. 
RIKER: Reunification?
PICARD [on viewscreen]: The Proconsul says that he is prepared to endorse peace talks. 
RIKER: And Spock?
PICARD [on viewscreen]: The Ambassador is sceptical, but he cares a great deal about reunification. As long as there's a chance of success, he's prepared to pursue it.
TROI: I'm afraid I don't see how a stolen Vulcan ship fits into all this. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Neither do I, Counsellor. How soon can you be at Galorndon Core, Number One?
RIKER: A little over eight hours.
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Well, this may prove to be a wild goose chase, but I don't see that we have any other choice, do you?
RIKER: Agreed.
DATA: We are losing our Romulan carrier wave, sir. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: We'll advise you further as soon as you reach your destination, Number One. Picard out.
(transmission ends)
RIKER: Ensign, set a course to Galorndon Core. Take us to warp eight. 
ENSIGN: Aye, sir. 
[Klingon bridge]
DATA: Captain, the Romulan subspace logs identify a transmission from the Romulan surface to a Barolian ship near Galorndon Core twelve hours ago.
K'VADA: Galorndon Core is along the Barolian trade route. They trade a great deal with the Romulans. It's probably just routine. 
DATA: This would not appear to be routine. I was able to trace the source of the transmission. It incorporates the code prefix of Romulan intelligence.
PICARD: Can you access it?
DATA: It is a short sequence of numbers. One four zero zero. 
PICARD: Nothing more?
DATA: No, sir. 
[Romulan street]
D'TAN: Spock! I've been looking for you. 
SPOCK: I have been meeting with the Proconsul. 
D'TAN: Does he still speak of reunification?
SPOCK: He speaks of nothing else. 
[Cafe]
D'TAN: Have you ever seen these?
(odd shapes small blocks) 
SPOCK: The syllabic nucleus of the Vulcan language. 
D'TAN: They were my toys when I was small. 
SPOCK: Your parents wanted you to learn to understand Vulcan?
D'TAN: Yes, as did their parents before them, to prepare us for the day when we would live again with our Vulcan cousins.
ROMULAN 1: Your friends from the Federation have returned. They need to see you immediately. I've told Pardek. He'll meet you at the cave. 
[Caves]
PICARD: The only communication that was sent were the numbers one four zero zero.
PARDEK: What does it mean?
SPOCK: It means that the Proconsul has apparently been attempting to deceive me. For what purpose I cannot say yet. But his conversations with me have obviously been part of a greater plan which involves the stolen Vulcan ship.
DATA: How do you know that, Ambassador?
SPOCK: The time the Proconsul set for the subspace announcement of our peace initiative is fourteen hundred hours tomorrow. One four zero zero.
PARDEK: Why would they need a Vulcan ship?
SELA: That will become clear very shortly. Captain Picard, welcome to Romulus. I trust you've enjoyed your visit. And this is the android I have come to respect in battle. 
DATA: Lieutenant Commander Data.
PARDEK: How could they know of this location? Someone has betrayed us. 
SPOCK: Yes. You did.
PARDEK: Spock, we've been friends for eighty years. 
SPOCK: It is the only logical conclusion. You asked me to Romulus, you arranged the meetings with the Proconsul, and you knew that Picard and Data had returned to the surface with new information.
SELA: The great Spock. Very well. Senator Pardek, your service to the Romulan people is noted and appreciated.
PARDEK: Jolan tru, Spock.
SELA: Do not be distressed. Your dream of reunification is not dead. It will simply take a different form. The Romulan conquest of Vulcan. Bring them. 
First Officer's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has reached Galorndon Core, near the border of the Neutral Zone. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Any signs of life, Mister La Forge?
LAFORGE: Negative, Commander.
TROI: The Romulans could have a cloaked base on the surface. 
RIKER: Or anywhere else along the Neutral Zone.
WORF: Sir, a coded subspace signal from Romulus. It's the Captain. 
TROI: What? 
RIKER: Maintain position at Galorndon Core. Diplomatic initiative appears to be succeeding. Will advise.
WORF: The message did employ the proper coded sequence.
RIKER: Yeah. I'm sure it did. 
[Romulan office]
SELA: Come in, gentlemen. Take a seat, please. (she continues working on a PADD) Excuse me, I'm just finishing up a speech. For you, Mister Spock. I rather enjoy writing. I don't get to do it often in this job. 
DATA: Perhaps you would be happier in another job.
SELA: Please feel free to change any words that you wish. I've tried to make it sound Vulcan. A lot of unnecessarily long words. In a few hours, you will deliver this statement alongside our Senate Proconsul. It will announce to the Vulcan people that a peace envoy is on its way from Romulus. We will transmit it on all Federation subspace frequencies.
PICARD: Peace envoy, in a stolen Vulcan ship. 
SELA: Actually, three Vulcan ships, Captain. The Enterprise is only aware of the one we stole from Qualor Two. We have been following your investigation. It has forced us to make some minor changes. One of them, a message sent in your name, ordering them to stay where they are.
PICARD: The moment those Vulcan ships appear in the Neutral Zone, the Enterprise will move to intercept. 
SELA: In that event, the Enterprise will be given more important matters to attend to. In the meantime, Ambassador Spock will be telling his people to welcome the peace envoy. And when they do, our forces will seize control before anyone realises what has happened.
PICARD: Do you seriously believe that the Federation will not immediately intervene?
SELA: Of course it will, and we're fully prepared for it. But we will be there, entrenched, and it will be very difficult to get us out once we are. Reunification will become a fact of life.
SPOCK: I will not read this or any other statement.
SELA: If you do not, you will die. All of you will die.
SPOCK: Since it is logical to conclude that you will kill us in any event, I choose not to cooperate.
SELA: I hate Vulcans. I hate the logic. I hate the arrogance. Very well. Computer, holographic programme Spock One. By taking advantage of holographic sampling during the last several days, we have created a programmable Spock. Run programme!
HOLO-SPOCK: This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now, Federation sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral Zone. These ships carry the future of the Romulan and Vulcan people. Our long conflict is finally over. 
SELA: Freeze. We would have preferred an interactive Spock who could have responded to questions, but this will have to suffice. 
PICARD: You can hardly believe this will convince anyone.
SELA: I don't need to convince them. Just confuse them long enough to reach Vulcan. End programme. If you'll excuse me, it's time to send our ships on their journey. 
(Sela and the guards leave) 
PICARD: Suggestions?
SPOCK: Commander Data, are they still unaware that we have access to their computers?
DATA: I believe so, Ambassador.
SPOCK: Then perhaps you and I can find a way to create a diversion. 
[Bridge]
WORF: Sir, sensors are picking up three vessels crossing the Neutral Zone. Vulcan ships. 
TROI: Vulcan?
RIKER: What's their heading, Mister Worf?
WORF: One four three mark zero one two. 
LAFORGE: That would put them on a course to Vulcan. They don't seem to be in any hurry. They're only moving at warp one, Commander.
RIKER: Worf, signal them on subspace. Request their status. Geordi, see if you can tell if it's one of ships we've been looking for.
WORF: They say they are escorting a peace envoy from Romulus to Vulcan. They request that we monitor Federation subspace channels. Ambassador Spock will be making an announcement shortly. 
TROI: Perhaps his reunification talks were successful. 
RIKER: Geordi?
LAFORGE: None of the transponder signatures matches that of the missing ship. They could have been altered. I'll keep checking.
RIKER: Set a course to intercept.
WORF: Sir, the Captain's orders were to maintain 
RIKER: I know the Captain's orders, Lieutenant. Engage. 
[Romulan office]
(Sela and her guards enter an empty room) 
SELA: Impossible! There's no way they could have gotten out of this room. 
RIKER: That's far enough. 
(Riker and two security with phasers) 
RIKER: Stay right where you are. Drop your weapons.
SELA: How did you get in here?
RIKER: Drop your weapons.
(the Romulans shoot at them) 
RIKER: Drop your weapons.
SELA: Cease fire. Holograms. 
(Spock comes out of a presumably holographic wall and neck pinches a guard. Picard punches the other one) 
SPOCK: I'm afraid I don't know too much about Romulan disruptor settings.
(Sela surrenders) 
SPOCK: Cowboy diplomacy? 
(the fake wall vanishes) 
PICARD: Well done, Mister Data. Though I don't think you got Commander Riker's hair quite right.
DATA: I will be more observant in the future, sir.
SELA: It doesn't matter what you do now. Spock's announcement will be made in minutes. Our forces will be on Vulcan before you can alert anyone. 
[Bridge]
CRUSHER: We've just received a priority one distress call from the colony on Dulisian Four. A massive failure of the environmental support systems. They're going to require evacuation.
RIKER: Mister Worf, any other ships in the vicinity of Dulisian Four? 
WORF: One, sir. A Rutian archaeological vessel.
CRUSHER: I'm sure it's not equipped to handle something of this scale, Will. 
RIKER: Geordi, any update on the Vulcan ships?
LAFORGE: I've checked every sensor display backwards and forwards. If the Romulans altered them, they didn't leave any fingerprints. I can't tie any of them to the surplus yard.
WORF: The Vulcan ships have entered Federation space. Maintaining low warp.
RIKER: Lay in a new course to Dulisian Four.
WORF: Incoming message from Romulus on all subspace channels.
RIKER: On screen.
SPOCK [on viewscreen]: This is Ambassador Spock of Vulcan. By now, Federation sensors are tracking three Vulcan ships crossing the Neutral Zone. These ships carry a Romulan invasion force and must be stopped. I repeat, these ships carry a Romulan 
(transmission ends) 
RIKER: Doctor, contact Dulisian Four and confirm this distress call. I have a feeling it may prove to be a false alarm. Mister Worf, how long before we intercept the Vulcan ships? 
WORF: Fourteen minutes, sir. 
[Romulan office]
DATA: Communication lines have been terminated at the transmitter, but I am quite certain the message was sent prior to the interruption.
PICARD: Well done, Mister Data.
SELA: You'll never get out of this building.
DATA: I disagree, Commander. After studying the design of this structure, I have determined that our best route of escape would be the underground exit to the east of this wing. I have disconnected certain security scanners to assist us. I am afraid we cannot permit you to warn your guards.
(and Data neck-pinches Sela into unconsciousness) 
SPOCK: Not bad. 
[Bridge]
WORF: The Vulcan defence vessels are also responding. The Romulan force is retreating toward the Neutral Zone. 
RIKER: They're not taking those Vulcan ships home with them. 
WORF: Visual range, Commander.
RIKER: On screen.
LAFORGE: Romulan warbird decloaking alongside the Vulcan ships.
RIKER: Red alert.
(but the green meanie is facing the Vulcan ships) 
RIKER: Advise the warbird to withdraw from Federation space, and tell them to leave the Vulcan ships where they are.
WORF: The warbird is powering up its forward disruptor array.
RIKER: Ready phasers.
(KaBOOM, kaBOOM, kaBOOM, and the green meanie cloaks again) 
LAFORGE: There were over two thousand Romulan troops on board those ships.
TROI: They destroyed their own invasion force.
RIKER: Rather than let them be taken prisoner. Stand down Red alert. Mister Worf, advise the Klingon ship to signal us as soon as Captain Picard and Data are safely aboard.
WORF: Aye, sir. 
[Other Caves]
D'TAN: This way. Pardek never saw these caves. It's safe. They won't find us here.
PICARD: What will you do now ?
WOMAN 2: What we have always done. Continue to teach. Pass on the ideals to a new generation. Work for the day when new thoughts may be spoken aloud.
PICARD: The Federation will welcome that day.
DATA: Captain, we will need to reach our transport site in fourteen minutes.
PICARD: I wish you well. 
VARIOUS: Thank you. Thank you Captain. 
(Picard, Data and Spock go into an adjoining cave) 
SPOCK: Captain, I will not be coming with you.
PICARD: Ambassador 
SPOCK: The reason for my coming here has never been more clear. The union of Vulcan and the Romulan people will not be achieved by politics or by diplomacy, but it will be achieved. The answer has been here before us all along. An inexorable evolution toward a Vulcan philosophy has already begun. Like the first Vulcans, these people are struggling to a new enlightenment. It may take decades, even centuries for them to reach it, but they will reach it. And I must help.
PICARD: I have learned it is useless to argue with you once your mind is set.
SPOCK: Not at all, Captain. I have found our arguments quite useful. Almost as useful as those I had with my father.
PICARD: Would it surprise you to learn that he found them equally valuable?
SPOCK: Ironically, you may know Sarek better than his own son does. My father and I never chose to meld.
PICARD: I offer you the chance to touch what he shared with me. 
(and we close on Spock initiating a mind-meld with Picard) 

