Episode Number: 115
The Next Generation Transcripts - Angel One
Angel One
Stardate: 41636.9
Original Airdate: 25 Jan, 1988
Captain's log, stardate 41636.9. As feared, our examination of the seven year overdue Federation freighter, Odin, disabled by an asteroid collision, revealed no survivors. However, three escape pods were missing, suggesting the possibility of survivors. 
[Bridge]
LAFORGE: Ready to begin orbit of Angel One, Captain. 
PICARD: Make it so, Mister La Forge. What kind of place is this, Data? 
DATA: Angel One is a class M planet, sir, supporting carbon based flora and fauna, sparsely populated with intelligent life forms. It is similar in technological development to mid-twentieth century Earth. 
LAFORGE: Kind of like being marooned at home. 
RIKER: Assuming any of the survivors made it this far. Admittedly, it 'is the closest planet to the Odin, but to travel distance we did in two days at warp one would have taken the Odin escape pod five months. 
DATA: Five months, fourteen days, eleven hours, two minutes 
RIKER: Thank you, Data. 
DATA: And fifty seven seconds. 
TASHA: Captain, we're receiving an audio signal from Angel One. 
PICARD: Starfleet are adamant that we maintain excellent diplomatic relations with this planet. Mister Data, is there any other pertinent information before we reply? 
DATA: Angel One has evolved into a constitutional oligarchy. It is governed by a parliamentary body consisting of six elected Mistresses, and headed by a female they refer to as The Elected One.
TROI: It sounds like my own planet. 
WORF: Klingons appreciate strong women. 
PICARD: How current is this information, Mister Data? 
DATA: A Federation vessel last visited this planet sixty two years ago, Captain. 
PICARD: Counsellor, as this is a female dominated society, you might wish to make the initial contact. 
TROI: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
TROI: This is Counsellor Deanna Troi from the USS Enterprise. 
BEATA: [OC]: I am Beata, The Elected One. How may we assist you, Counsellor? 
TROI: The Federation has neglected to visit to your planet for far too long. With your permission, we would like to correct that oversight. 
BEATA: [OC]: We feel in no way neglected, Counsellor. A diplomatic courtesy call is neither expected nor required. 
TROI: We also come in search of possible survivors from one of our freighters. 
BEATA: [OC]: A brief visit will be tolerated. 
TASHA: They've broken off transmission. 
LAFORGE: Ever feel like you're not really wanted? 
[Corridor]
RIKER: Where're you fellows off to?
WESLEY: Our ski instructor has us scheduled for the Denubian Alps, sir. 
RIKER: Save us some deep powder. 
WESLEY: No problem, sir. The holodecks have all you'll ever need. 
[Transporter Room]
(Riker, Troi, Tasha and Data get on the transporter pad) 
RIKER: The away team's ready, sir. 
PICARD: Angel One's strategic importance in this quadrant may become vital. Starfleet's hope is that one day this world may become part of the Federation. 
RIKER: We'll do our best to make a good impression, sir. 
PICARD: Energise. 
Captain's lot, supplemental. Our away team has beamed down to an unusual matriarchal society where the female is as aggressively dominant as the male gender was on Earth hundreds of years ago. Here, the female is the hunter, the soldier, larger and stronger than the male. An arrangement considered most sensible and natural. 
[Great Hall]
(There is a full gathering to greet the away team. People here kneel, not sit on chairs) 
BEATA: I am Beata, The Elected One of Angel One. Representatives of the Starfleet Enterprise, do you wish to petition? 
TROI: We do. We have reason to hope that survivors from a damaged Federation freighter may be marooned on your planet. We are seeking to learn if this is so. 
BEATA: Even a planet as remote as Angel One has heard of Starfleet. Searching the galaxy for survivors seems a petty task for one of their mighty vessels. 
RIKER: We don't consider even one survivor petty. 
BEATA: Is this man implying that we put a lesser value on life than you do? 
TROI: Not at all. Our discovery of the freighter was unexpected. We have a duty to investigate. 
BEATA: I see. And if you find any survivors, what then? 
TROI: We will take them with us and see that they were reunited with their families. 
ARIEL: Are we to take these strangers at their word? 
BEATA: Good question. 
TASHA: What reason could we possibly have to deceive you? 
BEATA: Another good question. 
RIKER: Are there survivors from the freighter Odin on your planet? 
BEATA: I'm not prepared to answer, yet. See to their comforts. 
RIKER: (to Troi) What's going on? 
[Guest quarters]
TRENT: You will remain here until summoned. 
(He leaves as Tasha sweeps the room with her tricorder) 
RIKER: Is thus area secure? Can we talk? 
TASHA: Yes. Tricorder doesn't show any listening devices or anything else of a threatening nature. 
RIKER: Good. Troi? 
TROI: There was much fear in that room.
RIKER: Paranoia, I'd say. But of what? 
TROI: I cannot say. But their fear was not focused. I sensed that all were not concerned for the same reason. Undoubtedly there are survivors from the Odin on this planet. 
RIKER: I agree. Otherwise, why would they be so circumspect? 
TASHA: As Mistress Beata is so fond of saying, good question.
DATA: What do we do if they deny the existence of survivors? 
RIKER: Let's not look for problems. 
[Turbolift]
PICARD: I want all departments prepared for a warp six trip into the Neutral Zone as soon as the away team completes its mission. 
WORF: Trouble, Captain? 
PICARD: Insurance. Romulan battle cruisers have been detected near one of our border posts. 
[Corridor]
(Picard steps out of the turbolift into a snowball) 
PICARD: They've requested assistance as soon as Argh! 
(The culprits leave the holodeck) 
PICARD: Report, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY We finished our ski lesson, sir, and it kind of just happened. 
PICARD: On the Enterprise, Mister Crusher, nothing just happens. What is that smell? 
WORF: Hmm, yes. Slightly reminiscent of night blooming throgni, Captain. From home. Quite stimulating, wouldn't you say? 
PICARD: No. 
WESLEY: I don't smell anything. I'm a little congested. The snow. 
PICARD: Don't let this just happen again, Mister Crusher. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
[Guest quarters]
(Data has found an atomiser, and gives himself a face-full) 
DATA: Interesting. An alcohol-based synthetic, artificially reproducing a floral scent. 
TROI: It's called perfume, Data. 
DATA: The purpose of which is? 
TASHA: Certain cultures consider perfume an aphrodisiac. 
DATA: I am unfamiliar with that term. 
RIKER: An aphrodisiac is something used to stimulate or enhance sexual pleasure.
DATA: How does stimulation of the olfactory nerves affect the enjoyment of sex? 
(Trent enters) 
TRENT: The Elected One will see you now. 
(When the group have left, he sprays himself with the perfume) 
[Great Hall]
BEATA: You claim you intend to remove these survivors from our planet. Are you prepared to give us your solemn word on that? 
TROI: We are.
BEATA: You should know that the vote was not unanimous. Some of those among us are suspicious. Yet the majority feel that we have no choice but to trust you. 
RIKER: We don't understand the source of your misgivings, Mistress, but we appreciate your faith in us. 
BEATA: Make certain that faith is not misplaced. There are four survivors from the ship you call Odin. All male. Their leader is a man who calls himself Ramsey. 
TROI: If you'll deliver these men to us, we'll have them off your planet immediately. 
BEATA: If they were mine to deliver, I would do it without hesitation. Unfortunately, their hiding place has long eluded us. 
TASHA: Hiding place? Why are they in hiding? 
BEATA: Because they are fugitives on Angel One, and the quicker we get rid of them, the better. When these men came to us seven years ago, they accepted our hospitality quickly enough. But they gradually became restive, started making unreasonable demands, went against the natural order. 
TROI: Using the technology of the Enterprise, we might be able to find these men. 
BEATA: I assumed as much. But be warned, Counsellor, these men are dangerous. 
[Sickbay]
(Wesley and his ski-ing companion are in beds, coughing) 
CRUSHER: Sickbay to Captain Picard. 
PICARD [OC]: Picard here. 
CRUSHER: Wesley and one of his friends have contracted some form of respiratory ailment. 
PICARD [OC]: A respiratory aliment? Is it contained? 
CRUSHER: I hope so. I've isolated the twelve students who were on the Quazulu Eight field trip. 
[Bridge]
PICARD: How contagious is it? 
[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: Still running tests. The key is to figure out how the virus is transmitted. So far I've been able to rule out 
[Bridge]
CRUSHER [OC]: Person to person contact. 
PICARD: Well, keep with it, Doctor. Starfleet has very important business for us as soon as the away team returns. I don't fancy the idea of my crew being infected. 
[Great Hall]
RIKER: Data, what's the best way to go about finding Ramsey and the other survivors? 
DATA: If we can isolate something unique to the Odin survivors, perhaps an element not otherwise found on Angel One, we can utilise the Enterprise scanners. 
RIKER: Mister Data will need access to your library. 
BEATA: Our library is far too sophisticated for a man to comprehend. 
DATA: I am an android, Mistress, although anatomically I am a male. 
BEATA: An amusing notion. Maybe you could teach our males a thing or two. Trent, see to the android's needs. 
[Bridge]
WORF: Bridge to Captain Picard. 
PICARD: [OC]: Go ahead, Lieutenant. 
WORF: The away team requests that we scan the planet surface for traces of platinum. 
PICARD: [OC]: Have Mister La Forge break fixed orbit and initiate a search pattern. 
WORF: Aye, Captain. Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Search pattern initiated now. 
[Guest quarters]
(Riker enters, and Troi hands him a local male outfit on a hangar) 
TROI: This was delivered for you. 
RIKER: Good. It's for my meeting with Beata. 
TROI: You're not going to wear that. 
RIKER: Of course. Part of this mission is diplomatic. I have requested an audience with a head of state, and I will honour her by wearing indigenous apparel.
TASHA: I don't believe this. You're going to put that thing on and parade around like one of them? 
RIKER: Why, what is this attitude? On Kabatris I had to wear furs to meet the leadership council. And on Armus Nine I wore feathers. This objection doesn't have anything to do with the fact that Beata is a woman, and an attractive one, does it? 
[Ready Room]
(The Captain is obviously ill) 
PICARD: This is quite unnecessary, Doctor. I'm fine. 
CRUSHER: You're infected with the virus. Captain. In my opinion, you are no longer physically able to effectively command this vessel. 
PICARD: That is ridiculous, Doctor. I have an away team down there, in less than friendly territory, and in addition I have an appointment with several Romulan battlecruisers. 
CRUSHER: You have an appointment in your cabin, Captain. With your bed. 
PICARD: Is that an order, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Yes. 
[Bridge]
WORF: I think I may sneeze.
LAFORGE: A Klingon sneeze?
WORF: Only kind I know. 
(Picard and Crusher enter) 
PICARD: Lieutenant La Forge, you have command until further notice. Please, make the proper ship's log entries. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Geordi goes and sits in the Captain's chair) 
WORF: Scanners indicate a platinum trace. Should I notify the away team? 
LAFORGE: Make it so. 
[Guest quarters]
TROI: Tasha. 
(Riker emerges in full local costume, left breast and chest hair to the waist fully on show. The women find it highly amusing) 
RIKER: What do you think? 
TASHA: Well, I got to say, it's kind of sexy. 
RIKER: Thank you, Lieutenant. Actually it feels quite comfortable. 
[Beata's quarters]
(They also double as her private office) 
BEATA: How handsome you look. 
RIKER: Thank you, The Enterprise reports a possible location for Mister Ramsey and the other survivors. 
BEATA: So soon? I'm impressed.
ARIEL: I suspicious. 
RIKER: You don't believe me? 
ARIEL: Not yet. I hear the words, but not the sincerity. 
BEATA: You had your opportunity to object, Ariel. You were in the minority. 
ARIEL: After seven years, the great ship Enterprise come to repatriate a small group of insignificant people. 
RIKER: Mistress Ariel, I hear the words but not the sincerity. 
ARIEL: You should listen more carefully. Excuse me, Mistress. I have matters to attend to elsewhere. 
(Ariel leaves, and Trent follows) 
RIKER: With your permission, we'd like to begin our search immediately.
BEATA: By all means. But I'm sure that Counsellor Troi and the others can do that without you. If I recall, you had a gesture of goodwill you wished to give to me? 
RIKER: Certainly that can wait until we've recovered the survivors. 
BEATA: Are you suggesting that the women in your party are incapable of accomplishing their task without the help of a man? 
RIKER: Not at all. Lieutenant Yar and Counsellor Troi are completely qualified. 
BEATA: You're very generous with your praise. Inform them you will remain here with me.
RIKER: Riker to Lieutenant Yar. 
[Guest quarters]
TASHA: This is Yar. 
[Beata's quarters]
RIKER: In the interests of diplomatic relations, I'll remain here with Mistress Beata while you conduct our search. 
[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Commander? 
RIKER [OC]: You have your instructions. 
[Beata's quarters]
BEATA: Relax. We have much to discuss. 
(She goes through gauze curtains into another room) 
[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Set phasers to stun. 
TROI: I wish they weren't necessary. 
DATA: A justified precaution, Counsellor. Mistress Beata observed that Mister Ramsey and his men are dangerous. 
TASHA: Lieutenant Yar to Enterprise. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Go ahead, Tasha. 
TASHA: Three to beam to the location of that platinum trace, Geordi. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Coordinates set. 
TASHA: Energise. 
[Hideout]
TROI: Tasha! 
(Below them is a cave and settlement, and a man at a table) 
RAMSEY: Welcome. I've been expecting you. 
[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Picard to Bridge. 
[Bridge]
(Worf sneezes) 
LAFORGE: La Forge here. 
[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Status report. 
LAFORGE [OC]: Eighty-two more reported cases of the virus, sir. Doctor Crusher's converted the holodeck into an isolation ward. 
PICARD: And the away team? 
[Bridge] 
LAFORGE: Well, no recent contact, sir, but I have informed them of the medical situation up here and the growing Romulan threat to our Neutral Zone outpost. 
[Picard's quarters]
PICARD: Keep me advised. You have the Bridge until Commander Riker returns. 
[Bridge]
WORF: Engineering reports a computer malf (sneeze) I'm sorry, I'm getting sick. 
LAFORGE: I'm sure half the ship knows that by now. Report to Sickbay, Lieutenant. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering to bridge. 
LAFORGE: La Forge here. 
CREWMAN [OC]: The computer won't accept the variant climate controls. 
LAFORGE: On my way. 
WORF: With all respect, Lieutenant, there are people to do that job now. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Engineering. Lieutenant Wong knows the system. I'm sure she'll be able to resolve all problems. Worf, thanks for the advice. 
[Hideout]
RAMSEY: How did you find me? 
DATA: Actually, it was quite simple. Angel One has no platinum. Enterprise scanners did the rest. 
RAMSEY: Platinum, was it? My wings. I kept them for their sentimental value. 
TASHA: Where are the other survivors, Mister Ramsey? 
RAMSEY: Oh, they're nearby. They're packing, as a matter of fact, since we can no longer remain here. 
TROI: Seven years on an alien planet, and I sense no anticipation, no excitement at being rescued. 
RAMSEY: What is it that you think you're rescuing me from? My shipmates and I have all taken wives. A few even have children. You can't rescue a man from a place that he calls his home. 
[Beata's quarters]
(Beata has slipped into something more comfortable) 
RIKER: Why were you so hesitant at first to tell us about the Odin survivors? 
BEATA: Simply because Ramsey and his men are anarchists. I had to make sure you weren't here to fuel their struggle. I like the way your eyes pick up the colour of your tunic. 
RIKER: It's not our position to interfere in the domestic affairs of other societies. 
BEATA: But you can interact. 
RIKER: Of course. Otherwise, how can we learn? 
BEATA: Is that why you're here with me tonight? To learn? 
RIKER: Yes. 
BEATA: About our society. 
RIKER: Yes. 
BEATA: Well, in our society, it is the men who are the fortunate ones, enjoying all life has to offer while we women devote ourselves to the obligation of making life work. 
RIKER: In our society, we share the responsibilities and the pleasures equally. Which is why I am able to be here with you while the women of the away team go to find Ramsey. 
BEATA: You'll have to remind me to thank them when they come back for giving us this time. 
(She kisses him) 
BEATA: You resist. Don't you find me attractive? 
RIKER: Yes, I find you very attractive. 
BEATA: You attract me like no man ever has. 
RIKER: It's not my function to seduce or be seduced by the leader of another world. 
BEATA: It's not the reason. 
RIKER: No, it's not. But will you still respect me in the morning? 
BEATA: I hope so. 
(They get into a clinch just as Trent enters and hands a gift to Riker) 
RIKER: Thank you, Trent. 
BEATA: You may go. 
(Trent leaves reluctantly. Riker opens the gift for Beata) 
RIKER: Compliments of the USS Enterprise. It's called an Albeni meditation crystal. 
(He touches it with a rod, and it pulses with a yellow glow) 
BEATA: Very impressive. And now I must repay you in kind. 
[Hideout]
RAMSEY: Five months in a rescue pod no bigger than this room is an eternity I hope none of you will ever have to face. When we finally made it here, we thought we'd died and gone to heaven. You've seen the women of the planet. They're tall and strong and lovely. But after the newness wore off, we started to see how the men were treated. There's no votes. There's no opinions. There's no respect. 
TASHA: None of which is your concern any longer, Mister Ramsey. Call the others in, please. It's time to leave.
RAMSEY: Despite their problems, Lieutenant, we happen to like it here on Angel One. We're not going anywhere. 
TROI: But Mistress Beata 
RAMSEY: Mistress Beata be damned! Her wish is not my command, and neither is yours. You can't force us to go. 
DATA: Mister Ramsey is correct, Counsellor. The Odin was not a starship, which means her crew is not bound by the Prime Directive. If he and the others wish to stay here, there is absolutely nothing we can do about it. 
[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: [OC]: Bridge to Sickbay how are you Doing, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: We have more sick than we do beds. So far I've been forced to confine over three hundred to their private quarters. 
[Bridge]
LAFORGE: We're going to be seriously undermanned if we're forced to engage the Romulans in battle. 
[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: The Romulans are your problem, Lieutenant. Trying to find an inoculants is mine. This virus mutates every twenty minutes. But so far we haven't had any fatalities, yet. 
[Bridge]
LAFORGE: If this continues, there'll be no one left to run the ship. 
[Sickbay]
CRUSHER: If this continues, Lieutenant La Forge, no one will be healthy enough to care. 
[Bridge]
TASHA: [OC]: Yar to Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: Enterprise here. Go ahead. 
[Hideout]
TASHA: Prepare to beam three to our previous location, Geordi. After re-grouping with Commander Riker, we'll return to the ship. 
[Bridge]
LAFORGE: I suggest you make that on the double, Tasha. We have a real medical emergency brewing up here. 
[Hideout]
LAFORGE [OC]: One third of the crew is down, and the latest information from the Neutral Zone outpost is that more Romulan vessels are converging on that area. 
TASHA: I'll inform the Commander. Yar out. One thing before we go. You said you were expecting us. Why? 
RAMSEY: I can't answer that. 
TROI: We wish you well, Mister Ramsey. 
TASHA: Energise. 
(The three beam away) 
RAMSEY: They're gone. 
(Ariel comes out and embraces him) 
[Beata's quarters]
BEATA: What a refreshing change to be with a man who knows what he wants.
RIKER: And doesn't have to be told by a woman? 
BEATA: Exactly. I knew you were bright enough to understand. You see, women, by our very nature, want only what is best for their men. 
RIKER: Men are not objects to be possessed, Mistress Beata. 
BEATA: Of course they're not. It was merely a figure of speech. 
(Doorbell. She rolls over and turns off the meditation crystal and gets up.) 
BEATA: Enter. 
(Trent comes in) 
BEATA: What is so important you find it necessary to intrude upon my privacy? 
TRENT: They have returned, Mistress, but without Ramsey or the others. 
(Tasha, Troi and Data enter) 
BEATA: Your advanced technology has proven inadequate? 
RIKER: What happened, Tasha? 
TROI: Mister Ramsey and the other survivors refuse to leave. 
BEATA: You gave me your solemn word. 
RIKER: I'm sorry, there's nothing else we can do. 
BEATA: I'm sorry as well. Since you refuse to take them with you, I am left with no choice but to sentence them all to death. 
[Picard's quarters]
(Crusher enters bearing a flask. Picard is in bed, bare-chested) 
PICARD: Come. 
CRUSHER: It looks horrible, tastes worse, and it's absolutely guaranteed to make you feel better. 
(He drinks) 
CRUSHER: I knew you'd like it. Are you wearing cologne? Like something I smelled earlier. Something Klingon.
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf and I detected the same scent when we bumped into your son at the Holodeck. 
CRUSHER: It's that smell. That's how the virus travels. An airborne particle whose sweet scent inspires deep inhalation. And once inside the body, it becomes that damned virus. I have work to do. 
(Crusher leaves) 
PICARD: You are excused, Doctor. 
[Great hall]
RIKER: What's the latest on the Enterprise's medical situation? 
DATA: Doctor Crusher feels the virus will undoubtedly run unchecked through the entire ship. Attempts to develop an inoculants have so far ended in failure. Lieutenant La Forge still has Bridge command pending your return, sir. 
RIKER: And what about the Romulans entering the Neutral Zone? 
DATA: The border outpost reports a contingent of seven Romulan battlecruisers within sensor range. The USS Berlin has answered the distress call. However, should hostilities erupt, both the outpost and the starship will be out-gunned. It is felt that the Enterprise's presence in the area will be a vital show of force. 
TASHA: Some show of force. The Enterprise could fly on autopilot, but with that virus knocking down our crew, we're going to be in sorry shape if things turn ugly. 
RIKER: I think it's time we to leave this place. 
TROI: It doesn't feel right to leave while Beata is determined to execute those people. 
RIKER: She has to find them first. Ramsey and his bunch have been fugitives for years. I suspect he's pretty good at evading capture. 
TROI: Something's wrong. 
(Beata enters, with Trent) 
BEATA: Before you go back to your ship, there's something I want you to see. 
(Ramsey and his group are brought in) 
RAMSEY: We were no harm to anyone. Why did you tell them where to find us? 
BEATA: You brought this upon yourself. You and the traitor. One does not need the technology of the Enterprise to follow Mistress Ariel sneaking out to warn her husband. Let her stand with him now. For tomorrow they will die together. 
[Beata's quarters]
(Beata is doing paperwork) 
RIKER: You claim to be an advanced society, and yet you resort to executions in order to suppress those who don't share your views. 
BEATA: I don't expect you to understand. 
RIKER: Why? Because I'm only a man? 
BEATA: You'll accomplish nothing with that attitude. 
RIKER: Mistress Beata, if you had an alternative to the execution of Ramsey and his followers, would you take it? 
BEATA: Is that not the way of an advanced society? 
RIKER: Then let us meet with the men from Odin one last time. Let me try to convince them to leave with us.
BEATA: Will you also include those from this world who unwisely choose to follow Ramsey and his group? 
RIKER: Yes. All of them. 
[Holding area]
TROI: Mistress Beata is willing to give you a second chance. We're prepared to take your entire group with us. 
RAMSEY: That's very kind of you, but we're not going. 
TASHA: Haven't you been paying attention, Ramsey? You're scheduled to be executed tomorrow. 
RAMSEY: We don't want to die. We don't want to leave, either. 
RIKER: There's no time to debate the issues. You're going with us whether you choose to go or not. 
DATA: Excuse me, Commander, but removing any of these people against their will would be a violation of several Starfleet regulations, not the least of which would be the Prime Directive. 
RIKER: I realise that, Mister Data. I'd rather face a court martial than live with the guilt of leaving these people to their deaths. Commander Riker to Enterprise. 
CRUSHER [OC]: This is the Enterprise. Crusher here. 
TASHA: It must be worse up there than we thought. 
RIKER: Doctor, where is Lieutenant La Forge? 
[Bridge]
CRUSHER: He's right here, but he's in bad shape. 
RIKER [OC]: Notify the transporter room I have fourteen to beam up. 
CRUSHER: I can't allow it. 
[Holding area]
CRUSHER [OC]} This virus is totally out of control here. Until I know exactly what I'm dealing with, I can't let anyone new be exposed. 
RIKER: Doctor, these people are facing their deaths down here. 
[Bridge]
CRUSHER: They might be facing the same thing up here. Until I have a better idea of what I'm dealing with, no one can beam up. I'm sorry, Will, but you must wait. 
{Holding area]
RIKER: Understood. Doctor, would this virus have any effect on Mister Data? 
CRUSHER [OC]: Not likely. 
RIKER: You're going back there alone. I want you to get the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone before it's too late. 
DATA: This is Data, standing by to beam up. 
(He beams away) 
TROI: What of them? 
RIKER: I don't know, Deanna. 
[Guest quarters]
TRENT: Mistress Beata invites you to witness this morning's reaffirmation of Angel One's moral imperative. 
TASHA: Is that the civilised word for murder on this world? 
RIKER: You send Mistress Beata our regrets. 
TRENT: The Elected One will not look fondly upon 
DATA: [OC]: Enterprise to Commander Riker. 
TROI: They're still here! 
RIKER: Riker here. Data, I gave you direct orders to get to Neutral Zone immediately. Explain the delay. 
[Bridge]
DATA: To be precise, Commander, you ordered me to reach the Neutral Zone before it is too late. 
[Guest quarters]
DATA: After relieving Lieutenant La Forge, I computed the length of time the border outpost 
[Bridge]
DATA: And the USS Berlin can safely withstand a Romulan attack, and deducted our time to destination at maximum warp speed. That leaves Doctor Crusher forty eight minutes to develop an inoculants to the virus. 
[Guest quarters]
TASHA: Which means there's still time for us to do something. 
RIKER: Forty-eight minutes. 
[Bridge]
DATA: Forty seven, sir. 
[Guest quarters]
RIKER: Perhaps, Data, perhaps. Thank you 
[Bridge]
RIKER [OC]: For following my orders so precisely, Data. 
[Guest Quarters]
RIKER: On second thought, Trent, we would be honoured to witness your moral imperative in action. 
[Great Hall]
BEATA: (upset) We have determined that the heretical teachings of Ramsey and his followers are inconsistent with harmonious life on Angel One. Our patient efforts to silence revolutionary voices have failed. Therefore we are left with none but the most final alternative. 
(There is a large jar between two devices. Trent puts his hands on a glass globe, it glows purple, the devices light up and disintegrate the jar) 
BEATA: As you can see, we are not without compassion. Your deaths will be swift and painless. 
RIKER: Mistress Beata, before we see living examples of your compassion, may I speak? 
BEATA: Is this a plea for leniency? 
RIKER: Nothing of the sort. As the governing body of Angel One, you're entitled to execute your laws or your citizens as you see fit. 
BEATA: Make your point, so we can proceed with this unpleasant business. 
RIKER: When you spoke of the prisoners, you used the term revolutionary. Indeed, death has been known to stop revolutions. But I suspect it's not a revolution that Angel One is hoping to stop. It's evolution. Mister Ramsey and the Odin survivors did not initiate the waves of dissent that are rippling through your planet. Their presence here merely reinforced the change in attitudes between men and women that was already well under way. They became symbols around whom others who shared their views could gather. You may eliminate the symbols, but that does not mean death to the issues which those symbols represent. No power in the universe can hope to stop the force of evolution. Be warned. The execution of Mister Ramsey and his followers may elevate them to the status of martyrs. Martyrs cannot be silenced. 
(Ramsey is taken to the place of execution. Trent starts to lower his hand)
ARIEL: Beata! 
BEATA: Stop. We will adjourn to consider your words. 
(The council leaves) 
RAMSEY: Thank you. 
RIKER: I don't know if it was enough. 
[Bridge]
CRUSHER: [OC]: Sickbay to Bridge. 
DATA: Go ahead, Doctor. 
CRUSHER [OC]: Bingo, Data. 
DATA: Bingo? I fail to see the relevance, Doctor. Is that not a reference to an ancient Earth game? 
{Sickbay]
CRUSHER: It's also a reference to success, Data. I've got the inoculants. 
[Bridge]
DATA: Excellent, Doctor. We still have seventeen minutes left. I will inform the away team immediately. Enterprise to Riker. 
[Great hall]
DATA [OC]: We are ready to have you beamed up, Commander. 
RIKER: Data, Ramsey and the prisoners are with us in the Great Hall. I want you to lock the transporter. Prepare to evacuate the entire group. 
[Bridge]
RIKER [OC]: But for now, stand by. 
DATA: Understood, Commander. 
[Great hall]
(Beata and the council enter) 
BEATA: After careful consideration, this legislature has voted to stay the execution of the prisoners. Their children will be returned to them immediately. Do not rejoice prematurely. Ramsey and his followers are to be exiled to a distant and unpopulated region. Life will be difficult there with little time for revolutionary or evolutionary upheaval. As some have observed, we may be able to stop evolution, but perhaps we can reduce it to a slow crawl. For a man, you can be very clever, Commander Riker. 
RIKER: Riker to Enterprise. Belay my previous order, Mister Data. There will now be only three to beam up. Energise. 
[Bridge]
(Beverly greet the arrivals with an injection) 
CRUSHER: Welcome home. 
TROI: It's good to be back. 
RIKER: Are they recovering? 
CRUSHER: Slowly, but yes. 
RIKER: And the Captain? 
PICARD: (hoarse) The Captain is fine, thank you. Mister Data has been briefing me on the away team's comportment, Number One. 
TROI: We improvised, sir. 
PICARD: I look forward to your reports. 
RIKER: Don't we have a call to pay on the Romulans, Captain? 
PICARD: Indeed we do. Mister Data, set course for the Neutral Zone. Warp six. DATA: Co-ordinates set. Warp six on your mark, sir. 
PICARD: (inaudible) Engage.
DATA: Sir? 
(Picard glares at Riker) 
RIKER: Engage. 

