Episode Number: 198
The Next Generation Transcripts - The Mind's Eye
The Mind's Eye
Stardate: 44885.5
Original Airdate: 27 May, 1991
Personal log, Chief Engineer Geordi La Forge, stardate 44885.5. I am en route to the planet Risa to attend an artificial intelligence seminar. Captain Picard has ordered me to arrive a few days early to have some fun and relax. I intend to follow his orders to the very best of my ability. 
[Shuttlecraft]
(Geordi has his feet up, sipping a long drink) 
LAFORGE: How about some different music, Computer. Something with a Latin beat. No, I meant something with a gentle Latin beat. Maybe a Spanish guitar. Perfect. Hey, what's the weather like on Risa? 
COMPUTER: Risa is climate-controlled for optimum tourist comfort, 
LAFORGE: Is that right? How long before we get there? 
COMPUTER: Arrival at Risa is scheduled for oh nine thirty two hours. 
LAFORGE: Three hours. How about a game, computer? 
COMPUTER: Please restate request. 
LAFORGE: Something to pass the time, you know, a diversion. 
COMPUTER: Select either visual interactive or verbal interactive. 
LAFORGE: Verbal. 
COMPUTER: You have twenty seconds to respond to each question. Level of difficulty will increase as you progress. Proceed when ready. 
LAFORGE: Begin. 
COMPUTER: List the resonances of the subquantum states associated with transitional relativity. 
LAFORGE: That's easy. 
COMPUTER: In alphabetical order. 
LAFORGE: Er, well, asymmetrical, inverted, phased, stable. 
COMPUTER: Your time has expired. 
COMPUTER: The fifth resonance is 
LAFORGE + COMPUTER: Universal 
LAFORGE: I knew that. Okay, give me another one. 
COMPUTER: List the field patterns associated with warp modulation in order of decreasing energy. 
(behind him, through the forward window, something green and mean uncloaks) 
LAFORGE: Oh, there's the aft nacelle associative, the forward (sees the ship) Whoa! Computer, sequence zero one zero. Maximum power to the shields. Kill the music. Enterprise, this is shuttle seven. I've encountered a Romulan Warbird. Coordinates at three (comm. failure buzz) 
COMPUTER: Warning. Shield failure. 
LAFORGE: Damn. Risa Control. Anybody. 
(then Geordi gets beamed away) 
Captain's log, stardate 44891.6. The Enterprise has been ordered to accompany a special emissary from the Klingon High Council to the Kriosian System, where one of their colonies is fighting for independence. 
[Ready room]
KELL: There was a time when the Empire would crush a rebellion. Now it is tolerated. We have enough problems on the home planet. We don't wish to divert resources to such a trivial war. 
PICARD: You're prepared to grant them independence? 
KELL: Perhaps. We'll conquer them again later, if we wish. 
PICARD: May I ask, Ambassador, what has this to do with us? 
KELL: The Governor of Krios has charged that the Federation is secretly aiding the rebels. 
RIKER: Does he have evidence? 
KELL: The Council has sent me here to examine that evidence. It was my decision to invite you to accompany me, Captain. Many on the Council have great respect for you. 
PICARD: K'adlo. I have been pleased to offer occasional assistance to the Klingon people in the past. 
KELL: Your modesty is very human, Captain. I will excuse it. 
PICARD: I can assure you, Ambassador, the Federation would never interfere in the internal affairs of the Empire. 
KELL: Let us hope not. Such interference would strike at the very basis of our alliance. 
RIKER: Captain, we are in the war zone. 
PICARD: Indeed. Ambassador, I will ask our Chief Security officer, Lieutenant Worf, to make a report 
KELL: Captain, Worf's discommendation makes that very awkward. If I could work with one of the other security officers 
PICARD: Lieutenant Worf is my Chief of Security and my tactical officer. This matter clearly falls within his jurisdiction. 
KELL: As you wish. 
[Romulan ship]
(The Romulans have the little shuttle in a tractor beam. Geordi is dragged into a room and strapped into a chair) 
LAFORGE: Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey, take it easy! (his head is fastened) Hey. 
TAIBAK: Welcome, Mister La Forge. We've waited a long time to meet you. 
LAFORGE: I can tell you've gone to a lot of trouble. 
TAIBAK: Indeed we have. You are going to be of great help to us. 
LAFORGE: I wouldn't count on it. 
(a Geordi look-alike comes in) 
TAIBAK: Good. Very good. Do not enjoy yourself too much on Risa. 
(the look-alike leaves. Geordi's visor is removed) 
LAFORGE: Hey! 
TAIBAK: Your visor will be returned to you, but first I want to show you something. 
LAFORGE: Show me something? That'll be an interesting trick seeing as how I can't see anything without the visor. 
(metal arms are swung around to the sides of his head) 
TAIBAK: That is not quite true. Allow me to demonstrate. I now have direct access to his visual cortex. He has no choice but to see what I wish him to see. I can feed him any image I choose. He will be unable to ignore it. His galvanic skin response has increased nine percent. It seems Commander La Forge, like many humans, has a low tolerance for watching others suffer. 
LAFORGE: Why are you doing this? 
TAIBAK: I am sorry, Commander. It is a necessary step. I apologize for your discomfort. 
(Taibak speaks to a figure which remains in the shadows throughout) 
TAIBAK: Here. Observe how a spring day on his native Earth affects him. He's looking at a beautiful meadow, green trees, birds, a blue sky. The heartbeat slows, the galvanic skin response drops. The body responds to our stimuli. He is incapable of maintaining control of his own responses. Watch as I change the stimuli again. Once our work is done, La Forge will act normally, totally unaware of his conditioning. The perfect tool for our purpose. 
WOMAN: Will there be any physical evidence of what you are doing to him? 
(hmm that voice sounds familiar) 
TAIBAK: None, Commander. That is why we chose La Forge. The utilisation of his pre-existing neural implants makes our work impossible to detect. 
WOMAN: How will we be certain the procedure has been successful? 
TAIBAK: I will programme him to perform a series of specific tests, both before he leaves us and after he returns to the Enterprise. We'll be able to verify his effectiveness. Notice that his heart rate has slowed somewhat. He is becoming accustomed to the horrors he is witnessing. So, we change horrors. 
(Geordi screams) 
[Tactical area]
KELL: There have been two rebel attacks on neutral freighters. One a Ferengi, the other Cardassian. 
WORF: Both were engaged near the Ikalian asteroid belt. That's where the rebels must be hiding. 
KELL: The actinides in the asteroids provide positive protection against our sensors. 
WORF: They might attack a freighter, but I doubt they would challenge a Federation starship. 
KELL: Especially with the Federation furnishing them support. 
WORF: You would test the Captain's word with me, Kell? Is it because I have no honour in your eyes that you expect me to be disloyal? 
KELL: Wrong of me to ask. My apologies. 
WORF: Captain Picard does not lie. If he says there is no Federation assistance to the rebels, there is none. 
KELL: Good. Because I risked my own reputation and honour coming to Picard. 
WORF: He will not disappoint you. If that is all. 
KELL: There are some members of the High Council who would thank you, Worf. 
WORF: Thank me? 
KELL: For killing Duras. No doubt that had he lived, one day he would ascended to head the Council. Many were not looking forward to that. 
WORF: My motives were personal, not political. 
KELL: Motives? Who cares for motives? Humans perhaps. What matters is you acted that day as a true Klingon. 
[Ten Forward]
TAIBAK: Where are we, Mister La Forge? 
LAFORGE: This is Ten Forward. 
TAIBAK: Who is that man sitting over there? 
(we see through Geordi's visor, in purple and green with Romulan characters on the screen) 
LAFORGE: That's Chief O'Brien. 
TAIBAK: How long has he served with you? 
LAFORGE: Almost four years. 
TAIBAK: I want you to kill him. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
TAIBAK: Take this phaser and kill Chief O'Brien. 
(O'Brien is talking quietly to colleagues when Geordi walks over) 
O'BRIEN: Finally I think I've found it. You see, this piece of conduit carrying the power to transporter seven, and I know that can't be right, so I take a closer look and sure enough 
TAIBAK: Freeze simulations. Commander, did you understand my request? 
LAFORGE: Well, I, it's just I, I don't 
TAIBAK: Look at me. Now, what did I ask you to do? 
LAFORGE: Kill Chief O'Brien. 
TAIBAK: Then do as I asked. Resume programme. 
LAFORGE: Chief. 
O'BRIEN: I have to 
(Geordi shoots him) 
TAIBAK: Good, Mister La Forge. Very good. Why don't you enjoy a drink with your friends? 
LAFORGE: Mind if I join you, guys? 
CREWMAN: Sure. 
TAIBAK: He still hesitated. Prepare the equipment for another session. 
Captain's log, stardate 44896.9. We are orbiting Krios, awaiting our first meeting with the Klingon Governor. Commander La Forge has rejoined the Enterprise from Risa. 
[Shuttlebay]
(Geordi is unloading shuttle Onizuka) 
DATA: Welcome back, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Data! 
DATA: How was the seminar? 
LAFORGE: Very informative. I'll tell you all about it. 
[Corridor]
DATA: It is fortunate we were able to coordinate your return on the Teldarian cruiser. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, when I heard the Enterprise had been ordered to the Krios system, I thought I might be forced to endure another couple of weeks on Risa. 
DATA: I am sorry to hear you did not enjoy yourself. 
LAFORGE: I was joking. 
DATA: Joking? Ah. Forced to endure Risa. Your actual intent was to emphasise that you did enjoy yourself. Yes, I see how that could be considered quite amusing. 
LAFORGE: I missed you, Data. 
[Bridge]
PICARD: Commander La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Permission to come aboard, sir. 
PICARD: Granted. Welcome back. 
LAFORGE: Thank you, sir. 
PICARD: Commander La Forge is my Chief Engineer. 
KELL: Commander. 
PICARD: He's has been attending a seminar on artificial intelligence on Risa. 
RIKER: I'm glad we got you back, Geordi. We're going to need your help on this. 
LAFORGE: Data tells me that the Federation has been accused of aiding Kriosian rebels. 
PICARD: We're to be presented with evidence today. We'll need your help in analysing it. 
LAFORGE: Anything I can do. 
(walking to the turbolift) 
TROI: You had a good time. 
LAFORGE: Does it show? 
TROI: You're more relaxed than I've ever seen you. 
(Geordi and Troi enter the turbolift) 
WORF: Captain, Governor Vagh has signalled he is ready to meet with you. 
PICARD: Very well. Advise him that we will transport sown to the surface immediately. Ambassador. 
(Picard and Kell leave) 
DATA: Commander Riker. 
RIKER: What is it, Data? 
DATA: Our sensors have detected a brief energy fluctuation in the E-band. 
RIKER: E-band? That's unusual. What's the source? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. E-band emissions are difficult to localise. 
RIKER: Collapsing protostars sometimes emit E-band bursts. 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, there are no protostars in this sector. 
RIKER: You'd better run a complete scan. Keep me posted. 
DATA: Yes, sir. 
[Corridor]
LAFORGE: The Carnelians have actually done the most work on artificial intelligence, so I spent a lot of time in their research seminars. 
TROI: Geordi, I get the feeling that something special happened on this vacation, and I'm not talking about computers. 
LAFORGE: Well, I did take second place in a chess tournament. 
TROI: Yes. 
LAFORGE: And I swam a lot. I worked on my back stroke. The water is very calm on Risa. 
TROI: And? 
LAFORGE: And I walked a lot. That's all. Well, I ate enough for twelve people. The food there is terrific. They've got a chocolate there, Counsellor, you would love. 
TROI: And that's all?
LAFORGE: Yeah. Well, there was this 
TROI: Yes? 
LAFORGE: Her name is Jonek. But you wouldn't want to hear about that. Better get ready for duty. Nice talking to you, Counsellor. 
[Governor's office]
VAGH: We talk, we socialise, we waste time and the insurrection continues to grow. These rebels need to be crushed not coddled. 
KELL: Governor, it does not matter what you or I think. The High Council's made its wishes clear. 
VAGH: The Council should be more interested in Federation interference. 
PICARD: Governor, exactly what do you think the Federation has done? 
VAGH: Your medical supplies have been found in rebel strongholds. 
RIKER: We make no effort to restrict access to our medical supplies. 
VAGH: Are your weapons also freely available? 
PICARD: No, they are not. 
VAGH: Then explain this. 
(Picard catches the phaser rifle that is thrown at him) 
PICARD: You took this weapon from the rebels? 
VAGH: That and many more like it. 
RIKER: It does appear to be Federation issue. 
PICARD: Governor, with your permission, I would like to take this weapon back to the Enterprise to verify its origin. 
VAGH: As you wish. I have hundreds more. 
PICARD: Even if these weapons are genuine, I can assure you that a third party must have been involved. The Federation is not in the business of supplying arms to rebels. 
VAGH: This is the only Klingon colony on the border of Federation space. You cannot deny that Starfleet would be happy to see Krios gain its independence. It would reduce your vulnerability to an attack. 
PICARD: Governor, you speak as if we are enemies, not allies. 
VAGH: And you speak the lies of a taar'chek. 
PICARD: Qu'vath guy'cha b'aka. 
KELL: Gentlemen. 
VAGH: You swear well, Picard. You must have Klingon blood in your veins. 
KELL: Governor, I will report to you as soon as the analysis of that weapon is complete. Captain, Commander. 
PICARD: Enterprise, three to transport. 
[Engineering]
LAFORGE: Intercooler flux down to five percent. Plasma deviation steady at point seven two. 
CREWMAN: Aye, sir. 
LAFORGE: Well, if you guys keep running at this efficiency, I might as well go back to Risa for another week. Just run through a level four series, and then call it a night, huh? I'd help you, but there's something I've got to take care of. 
[Ten Forward]
LAFORGE: Red Torian, please. (the drink is served) Thank you. 
(O'Brien is sitting alone with his back to the bar. Geordi goes quietly over then deliberately spills his drink over Miles' shoulder) 
LAFORGE: Oh! I'm sorry. 
(that gets the attention of Riker, Crusher and Kell) 
O'BRIEN: It's all right. 
LAFORGE: My glass, it just slipped. 
O'BRIEN: It's nothing, just a little cold. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, but you're all soaked here. 
O'BRIEN: It's nothing serious. 
LAFORGE: Let me get you something to wipe that off with. 
O'BRIEN: I'll just go to my quarters and change. 
LAFORGE: You sure? 
O'BRIEN: Don't think twice about it, Commander. 
[Engineering]
(Data and Geordi are doing test firings of the phaser rifle) 
DATA: Energy flow is within normal parameters, from the pre-fire chamber to the emission aperture. 
LAFORGE: Rapid nadion pulse, right on target. Beam control assembly, safety interlock, both checked out. Beam width intensity controls also responding correctly. 
DATA: Energy cell usage remains constant at one point oh five megajoules per second. Curious. The efficiency reading on the discharge crystal is well above Starfleet specifications. 
LAFORGE: Yeah, by quite a bit. Ninety four point one percent efficiency. 
DATA: Our most efficient discharge crystal typically fires with eighty six point five percent efficiency. 
LAFORGE: Let's take a closer look at the wave pattern on the emission beam. That might tell us why it's losing so little energy. 
DATA: Pulse frequency out of pre-fire chamber reads steady. 
LAFORGE: There. That's not right. The initial output spike is inverted. 
DATA: That might suggest that the weapon has been charged with a forced pulse, well into the terahertz range. 
LAFORGE: Then it's definitely not Starfleet issue and there can't be that many systems that use the terahertz feeds. 
DATA: Three hundred twenty seven, to our knowledge. We can probably achieve an exact match with a random computer search. It will take approximately three hours. 
LAFORGE: I think we could narrow this down with a little common sense, Data. Who has the most to gain from a conflict between the Klingon Empire and the Federation? 
[Governor's office]
LAFORGE: The Romulans. They fashioned a perfect Federation rifle but they had to charge it from their energy sources. So the discharge crystal and the emission beam pattern correspond to those you'd find in a Romulan disrupter. 
VAGH: The Romulans have no interest in Kriosian independence. The planet is too far from their borders. 
PICARD: But they do have an interest in driving the Federation and the Empire apart. Our alliance is the only thing that has kept them in check. 
VAGH: Romulan replications using stolen Federation technology? 
KELL: It's a typical Romulan ploy. An attempt to sow dissension and mistrust. Commander, you've done well. I would thank you on behalf of the Empire. 
VAGH: I still have my doubts, Picard. I will want my own technicians to confirm your findings. 
PICARD: Of course. My staff will give you their full cooperation. 
VAGH: You may go. 
[Bridge]
(at Science One) 
RIKER: Another E-band blip? 
DATA: Yes, sir. However, the difference in intensity indicates that this one did not originate from the same location as the first. 
RIKER: If it's changed intensity, it can't possibly be a protostar. 
DATA: That is a reasonable assumption. 
RIKER: Is there any known instance of Romulans using E-band communications? 
DATA: Not to my knowledge, sir. 
RIKER: Can you track the source? 
DATA: We can reconfigure the primary sensor array. If we narrow their focus to scan for E-band emissions, we might be able to calculate a directional vector. But only if there are more occurrences. 
RIKER: Do it. 
[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Computer re-route the power flow in the cargo bay four transporter to the auxiliary replicator system. 
COMPUTER: Please verify command with necessary protocol. 
LAFORGE: Initiate protocol three six four dash B. 
COMPUTER: Verify priority clearance. 
LAFORGE: Recognise La Forge, theta two nine nine seven. 
COMPUTER: Acknowledged. Power has been re-routed through auxiliary power distribution system code number four four seven six two. 
LAFORGE: Now, redirect transporter mode to the planetary sensor array. 
COMPUTER: Transporter mode has been redirected. 
(a box is beamed away) 
LAFORGE: Verify that all record of these modifications are being erased from each directory. 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. Erasure process is proceeding. 
[Bridge]
(La Forge enters) 
WORF: Sir, we are being hailed by Governor Vagh. 
PICARD: On screen, Mister Worf. Governor. 
VAGH [on viewscreen]: You astonish me, Picard. Did you seriously believe you would succeed? Do you think we are blind? 
PICARD: I don't understand. 
VAGH [on viewscreen]: We intercepted the weapons you tried to transport to the surface. 
PICARD: Governor, I assure you 
VAGH [on viewscreen]: Do not insult us both by denying it. Maintain your position until further notice. Do not attempt to leave orbit. 
(transmission ends) 
WORF: Klingon attack cruiser uncloaking, sir. 
PICARD: On screen. 
WORF: Two birds of prey approaching. 
(shortly after) 
DATA: Sensors confirm an unauthorised transporter beam at eleven twenty three hours. 
PICARD: Do you know which transporter was used? 
LAFORGE: I'm not sure, Captain. Whoever did it apparently used the planetary array to bypass the transport sensors. 
RIKER: What about the transporter logs? 
LAFORGE: They're blank. 
RIKER: How many people on board are capable of doing this, Geordi? 
LAFORGE: I'm not even sure how it was done yet. As soon as I find out, maybe I can give you an answer. Not many, that's for sure. 
(Kell enters) 
KELL: Vagh is fully prepared to fire upon the Enterprise. I have convinced him it would not be wise to take any action without first consulting the High Council. 
RIKER: How long do we have? 
KELL: A few hours at most. 
PICARD: Mister La Forge, your recommendations? 
LAFORGE: It might be possible to locate the point of origin by tracing power flows at the time of transport. 
PICARD: Make it so. 
[Engineering]
DATA: The primary plasma system does not indicate a power drain from any of the transporters. 
LAFORGE: Then whoever used the transporter must have bypassed the primary feeds. 
DATA: Tracking power from secondary systems. No surges to any of the transporters indicated. 
LAFORGE: Damn, who could have pulled this off? Try the life-support power flows. 
DATA: No abnormal surges indicated. 
LAFORGE: Replicator waveguides? There. That's not a replicator energy pattern. Trace it. 
DATA: Cargo bay four. 
LAFORGE: La Forge to Worf. Security to cargo bay four. 
[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: I've run a level one diagnostic. As far as I can tell, the unit hasn't been tampered with. 
LAFORGE: This has to be the transfer point. 
DATA: Perhaps the perpetrator reprogrammed the memory chips to erase any record. 
O'BRIEN: You're talking about thirty or forty chips in half a dozen different control systems. 
WORF: Which members of the crew could have accomplished that? 
LAFORGE: I think I could have done it, if I put my mind to it. The Chief, Data, Lieutenant Costa, that's about it. 
WORF: Procedure requires that I ask each of you where you were at eleven twenty three hours. 
O'BRIEN: I was with Keiko, in the Arboretum. 
DATA: I was on the Bridge at my station. 
LAFORGE: I was in my quarters. 
WORF: Was anyone with you? 
LAFORGE: No, I was alone. Costa was on duty in Engineering. I'm sure he's got twenty witnesses. 
WORF: Then there is someone on board who isn't what he or she seems to be. 
LAFORGE: Data, let's do a detailed scan on every chip in this assembly. There's got to be some kind of trail we can follow. 
[Ready room]
PICARD: The isolinear chips were definitely altered? 
LAFORGE: Programmed to erase all operator commands once the transfer was complete. 
KELL: But with the chips erased, what evidence remained? 
DATA: The erasures were complete. However, an analysis of the subatomic structure revealed an almost undetectable residual pattern. In time, we may be able to reconstruct the perpetrator's authorisation code. 
KELL: Do you have any idea who's responsible? 
LAFORGE: No, sir. Everyone with the necessary skills also has an alibi, except for me, that is. I was alone in my quarters at the time. 
KELL: Then whoever did this must have been specially trained for the task. 
PICARD: Our forensic team is trying to identify anyone who might have been in cargo bay four today. 
LAFORGE: It's not going to be easy. There were a lot of people in and out of there. 
RIKER [OC]: Riker to Data. 
DATA: Yes, Commander. 
RIKER [OC]: Sensors have picked up another E-band emission. 
DATA: Acknowledged, I will be there shortly. 
KELL: E-band emission? 
DATA: We have been picking up a curious intermittent blip. Commander Riker has speculated that it may be a Romulan transmission. I am attempting to track its source. 
PICARD: Proceed. Thank you, Mister La Forge. 
(Geordi and Data leave) 
KELL: We do not have much time, Picard. Vagh is not known for his patience. 
PICARD: Assure him that we are doing everything possible. And, advise him that if necessary I will defend my ship. 
KELL: With your permission, I will transport down to the planet. 
PICARD: Of course. 
KELL: May I suggest that you issue an invitation to Vagh, to personally witness your continuing investigation. 
PICARD: Do you think he will come? 
KELL: I will do everything in my power to see that he does. Qapla', Picard. 
PICARD: Qapla', Ambassador. 
[Kell's quarters]
(Kell is having dinner when the doorbell rings) 
KELL: Come in, Mister La Forge. 
(Geordi enters) 
KELL: The investigation is moving faster than we expected. You are in danger of being exposed. I will transport to the surface. When I return, I'll have Governor Vagh with me. Your Captain and I will bring him to the cargo bay. I want you to kill him there, in front of many witnesses. Use a hand phaser. When he is dead, you will claim that you acted on behalf of Starfleet, in support of Kriosian independence. 
LAFORGE: I understand. 
[La Forge's quarters]
(Geordi wakes from a nightmare) 
LAFORGE: La Forge to O'Brien. O'Brien? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Go ahead, Commander, what can I do for you? 
LAFORGE: Nothing. Chief, I'm sorry to disturb you. I'm sorry. 
[Sickbay]
LAFORGE: Hiya, Doc. 
CRUSHER: Geordi, hi. What can I do for you? 
LAFORGE: Well, I just can't seem to get any sleep. I was hoping you could give me something. 
CRUSHER: Sit down. Let's take a look. You couldn't sleep at all? 
LAFORGE: I was restless. I kept waking up. 
CRUSHER: Would you take off your visor, please? 
LAFORGE: Sure. 
CRUSHER: Is there something on your mind? 
LAFORGE: No, I don't think so. 
CRUSHER: Well, everybody goes through these occasional bouts of insomnia. There's probably nothing to worry about. Let's just make sure there's nothing physically wrong. There's a minor vascular irregularity in the visual cortex. A slight dilation of the blood vessels. It's nothing serious. What about your visor? Has it been giving you any problems lately? 
LAFORGE: Nothing out of the ordinary. 
CRUSHER: All the same, it might be a good idea to have it examined when we get to Starbase thirty six next month. 
LAFORGE: Okay. 
CRUSHER: In the meantime, I will get you a somnetic inducer to put by your bed. It'll help you to sleep. 
LAFORGE: Thanks, Doc. I'm sure I'll be fine. 
[Transporter room]
PICARD: Energise. 
(Kell, Vagh and two other Klingons beam in) 
PICARD: Governor Vagh, thank you for coming. 
VAGH: You can thank Ambassador Kell. I am here against my better judgment. 
KELL: Captain, I think the first thing the Governor should see is the investigation underway in the cargo bay. 
PICARD: Of course. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: From inside the Enterprise? You're sure? 
DATA: The first and third E-band blips were clearly generated on board the ship. The second came from the planet surface. 
RIKER: Generated by what? 
DATA: Unknown, sir. 
RIKER: Mister Data, we have a known spy on board and now we have unexplained signals on board. I think it's reasonable to assume that they're related somehow, wouldn't you? 
DATA: One could speculate that the E-band is being used for some form of covert communication. 
RIKER: We need more than speculation, Mister Data. We need to know who, what, where, when and why, or we may be going to war. 
DATA: Yes, sir. Computer, run an analysis of all known Romulan transmission formats, all bands, Identify any commonalities with displayed waveform. 
COMPUTER: No commonalities noted. 
DATA: Does this waveform match that of any known communication format? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
DATA: Broaden search pattern beyond communications. Does the waveform displayed conform to any natural phenomena, cryptographic formats or lifeform EM emissions? 
COMPUTER: The signal corresponds to a delta compressed wavelength spectrum similar to human neural frequencies. 
DATA: As in a human brainwave pattern? 
COMPUTER: Affirmative. 
DATA: What kind of receiver would be capable of processing these signals? 
COMPUTER: A system designed to modify the electromagnetic spectrum and carry those messages directly to the human brain. 
[Shuttlebay]
(Data goes to the Geordi's shuttle) 
DATA: Computer, link with the shuttle's onboard system. Access the isolinear storage assembly. Scan all chips which contain mission logs. Note any discrepancies. 
COMPUTER: No discrepancies noted. 
DATA: Perform a level 5 diagnostic on the shuttle's power and navigational systems. 
COMPUTER: The components specified are all within normal tolerances. 
[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: My technicians have examined all of the ship's transporters, sir. I can assure you, this is the only unit that has been tampered with. 
[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Computer, scan the shuttle's structural integrity. 
COMPUTER: Sub-microscopic deformations are present in the nose section and aft thrusters. 
DATA: Probable cause of these variations? 
COMPUTER: The shuttle has been subjected to stress consistent with a tractor beam. 
[Cargo bay]
(Geordi enters and watches Picard with the Klingons) 
PICARD: All our transporter containers have a slight impurity in the structural alloys which allows us to trace our material. 
(Geordi reaches for his phaser) 
O'BRIEN: Commander La Forge? 
LAFORGE: What can I do for you, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: Could you take a look at the pattern buffers? Considering what's happened, I'm not sure the control systems are reliable. 
LAFORGE: Sure. Sure, let's take a look. 
[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Computer, I am reading anomalous variations in the molecular structure of these memory chips. Please confirm. 
COMPUTER: Analysis confirmed. 
DATA: Probable cause? 
COMPUTER: Replication. 
DATA: Compare these variations with established Romulan replication patterns. 
COMPUTER: The patterns are identical. 
[Cargo bay]
LAFORGE: Maybe we should run a level one diagnostic on those phase transition coils. 
O'BRIEN: Right, Commander. 
DATA [OC]: Data to La Forge. 
[Shuttlebay]
DATA: Report, please. Geordi. 
[Cargo bay]
DATA [OC]: Please respond. 
[Corridor]
DATA: Computer, current location of Commander La Forge? 
COMPUTER: Cargo bay four. 
DATA: Data to Lieutenant Worf. 
[Cargo bay]
DATA [OC}]: Priority One. 
WORF: Go ahead. 
[Corridor]
DATA: Take Commander La Forge into custody immediately. 
[Cargo bay]
WORF: Sir? 
[Corridor]
DATA: That is an order. 
[Cargo bay]
(from his vantage point up a ladder, Worf sees Geordi slowly walking towards Picard and the Klingons) 
PICARD: DNA samples by tracing biochemical signatures, we'll be able to determine who has been in this bay recently. 
VAGH: But how will it be possible to prove which one was responsible? 
(Worf tries to walk through the group and is held back by the Klingons) 
VAGH: Q'ac ken ta'vak! 
WORF: La Forge! 
(Picard grabs Geordi's arm just as he fires the phaser. The beam goes up to the ceiling instead. Picard disarms Geordi) 
PICARD: Mister Worf, get him out of here. 
(Worf shrugs off the Klingons, and leaves with Geordi as Data arrives) 
VAGH: Arming our enemies is not enough. Now the Federation would murder me to achieve its aims. 
PICARD: Governor, if I could explain this I would. 
DATA: I believe I can help, Captain. I have been able to determine that Commander La Forge was abducted by Romulans en route to Risa. It is likely that he was somehow forced to take part in the plot to assassinate Governor Vagh. 
KELL: I saw no evidence of Romulans. We just witnessed him acting very much alone. 
DATA: No, sir, you did not. I do not believe the Commander is acting of his own accord. He has been receiving E-band signals through his visor. Signals which are carrying direct commands to his brain. I have surmised that Commander La Forge was conditioned by Romulans, a process referred to historically, and somewhat inaccurately, as brainwashing. 
VAGH: But to what end? Why would the Romulans want to kill me? 
PICARD: The Romulans have always wanted to destroy the alliance between the Federation and the Klingons. If Mister La Forge had killed you, Governor, I think you would agree, they might have succeeded. 
KELL: Who sent these signals? A cloaked Romulan ship? 
DATA: No, sir. That is not possible. The signals had to be transmitted within close proximity to the visor. 
PICARD: Are you suggesting there was a Romulan accomplice in close proximity to La Forge when he was receiving the signals? 
DATA: Yes, sir, I am. 
VAGH: This Romulan accomplice, who is he? 
DATA: I have narrowed the list of possibilities to two people. The only two people who were with Commander La Forge all three times a transmission was recorded. Captain Picard and Ambassador Kell. One of them may be concealing an E-band transmitter. If they would agree to be searched 
KELL: I am a Klingon. An emissary of the High Council. I will not be submit to being searched by you or anyone else on this ship. 
VAGH: I am forced to agree, Captain. We will take the Ambassador with us and search him ourselves. 
KELL: Captain, I believe it to be in all best interests if I remain on board. I formally request asylum. 
PICARD: I will certainly grant you asylum, when you have been absolved of this crime. 
VAGH: Gurt'ank te'la. 
(and the four Klingons are beamed away) 
[La Forge's quarters]
LAFORGE: But I remember everything! Like, there was this one night at dinner, we had this Andorian waiter, he couldn't get our orders right. It did happen. I remember being on Risa. 
TROI: I know you do. Just take that memory and put it aside for a moment, and tell me everything you remember about the shuttlecraft trip after you left the Enterprise. 
LAFORGE: Well, I was just trying to get in the mood. I played some music, I talked to the computer. You know what it's like on a long trip. 
TROI: And when you saw the Romulan ship, did you try calling for help? 
LAFORGE: No, the first thing I did. Wait a minute, that's. But that's 
TROI: It'll take time, Geordi. A long time. But we will reconstruct your memory. Together. 
LAFORGE: I'm just not sure about anything. 
TROI: Believe it or not, that's a good sign. A beginning. Now, let's go back to the shuttlecraft. There was a Romulan ship and the first thing you did was? 

