Episode Number: 110
The Next Generation Transcripts - The Battle
The Battle
Stardate: 41723.9
Original Airdate: 16 Nov, 1987
Captain's log, stardate 41723.9. In response to a Starfleet order we are in the Xendi Sabu star system, having rendezvoused with a Ferengi vessel which has requested a meeting. Although we arrived here and made appropriate signals to the Ferengi three days ago, they have so far responded only with the message, stand by Enterprise. 
[Picard's quarters]
(Picard is reading, when the door bell chimes, and Beverly enters with her medical bag) 
CRUSHER: You sent for me, sir? 
PICARD: Yes, Doctor. Sit down. Look, this perhaps may be nothings, but I've been feeling a bit odd of late. Fatigued. And now I've got this damned headache. 
CRUSHER: A what? 
PICARD: Headache. Headache. Surely you know what a headache is. 
CRUSHER: Of course. But I don't often encounter them. 
PICARD: The reason is obvious, of course. What are the Ferengi up to? Stand by, Enterprise. Stand by for what? 
CRUSHER: I don't see a thing wrong. 
PICARD: No, neither can I. Unless they're baiting some kind of trap. 
CRUSHER: With your head. I see nothing physically wrong, but I want to run some additional scans in Sickbay. 
PICARD: Doctor, all I've got is 
CRUSHER: Is an order to report to Sickbay. From the one person aboard this ship who can give you an order. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain from First Officer. They're finally sending a message. 
PICARD: On my way, Number One. Sorry, Doctor. Duty calls. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: They're prepared to talk, sir. 
PICARD: Have they given any hint of what they've been waiting for? 
TASHA: Negative, Captain. They've identified their Captain as Bok. DaiMon Bok. 
LAFORGE: You'll be able to see him now, sir. They're willing to communicate on visual. 
PICARD: Open hailing frequencies. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
PICARD: Ferengi vessel. This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the Enterprise. We are transmitting visually. 
BOK [on viewscreen]: Is this the Captain Picard? 
PICARD: Do we know each other? 
BOK [on viewscreen]: I know you, Picard. 
PICARD: Then you have the advantage. Is this Bok? 
BOK [on viewscreen]: I am Bok, DaiMon of the Ferengi. I have asked you here to discuss a mutual problem, Captain. 
PICARD: What problem is that, DaiMon Bok? 
BOK [on viewscreen]: I insist on speaking of that matter in person. Shall we meet on your vessel or mine? 
(Troi signals the transmission cut) 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies closed. 
TROI: Captain, I sense considerable deception on Bok's part. And danger. 
RIKER: Then we should meet him here. Keep him under our control. 
(Picard nods) 
TASHA: Now open, sir. 
PICARD: I appreciate your offer, DaiMon Bok. We would like you to be our guest here. 
BOK [on viewscreen]: As you wish, Picard. Perhaps this will begin a new era of cooperation for both our peoples. In one Earth hour, then? 
PICARD: In one hour, DaiMon Bok. End transmission. 
WORF: I can't believe they're coming here. 
PICARD: They did agree a bit easily. Well, in one hour we shall know why. 
[Sickbay]
(Picard is lying on an examination table) 
PICARD: Are you always accustomed to getting your way, Doctor? 
CRUSHER: Only when my way makes sense, Captain. There are still forty minutes before the Ferengi beam over. I'll have these scans done in ten. 
PICARD: It seems an awful lot of effort for something as simple as a headache. 
CRUSHER: As simple? You should not have a headache unless there's something wrong, sir. It may be true that headaches were once quite common, but that was in the days before the brain was charted, before we understood the nature of pain. When we were suffering from such things as the common cold. 
PICARD: So what's the cause of my headache? 
CRUSHER: I haven't the slightest idea. (she puts something against his temple) Feel better. 
PICARD: The pain's gone. 
CRUSHER: Medical fakery. The pain is actually still there. It's just cloaked. I'll want further exams. 
PICARD: Doctor! 
CRUSHER: When the Ferengi matter is settled. 
[Bridge]
(Wesley enters, in his new acting Ensign uniform. It looks awful) 
WESLEY: Commander, you'll soon be getting an intruder alert.;
RIKER: What? Wesley, if you've something to report. 
WESLEY: If you'll scan heading four four mark one six three, Lieutenant, you'll find 
TASHA: Intruder alert, sir. 
LAFORGE: I've got something, sir. 
WESLEY: It's an old style starship, Constellation Class, heading this way under impulse power, sir. 
(Picard enters) 
RIKER: Says who? 
PICARD: Ensign, answer the First Officer's question. 
WESLEY: Says the long distance sensors, sir. I was in Engineering, playing around with boosting sensor output. 
DATA: Boosting it? How? (catches Picard's eye) We will discuss this later. 
LAFORGE: I read it now, sir, as a Constellation class starship heading this way under impulse power. Sending no call letters, sir. 
PICARD: The correct procedure, 
RIKER: What's wrong, sir? 
PICARD: Oh, it's nothing. It's just a, just a mild headache. The correct procedure, Ensign, would have been to signal the Bridge of your finding immediately. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
RIKER: Bringing it here personally, perhaps with the idea of being on hand for the Ferengi beam over, might have imperiled this vessel had it been something hostile approaching. 
WESLEY: Yes, sir. 
WORF: We are receiving no signal at all from the approaching starship, sir. 
DATA: Time, sir. 
PICARD: Time? Oh, for the Ferengi to beam over. Do you see any problems connected with this old starship coming in, Number One? 
RIKER: Suggest it would be safer, sir, to have the Ferengi here whatever happenings. 
PICARD: Concur. Stand by. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
(The Ferengi transporter is a curved effect, instead of vertical. Three big-eared little men appear in front of the viewscreen) 
PICARD: Welcome you in peace to the Enterprise, DaiMon Bok. 
BOK: It is our pleasure, Captain Picard. Might I introduce my First Officer, Kazago, and my Second, Rata? 
PICARD: This is my First Officer, Commander William Riker. Second in command, Data. Counsellor Troi. 
BOK: We have heard that you use females. Clothed females. Most interesting. 
RIKER: They are that, sir. 
KAZAGO: And the android was mentioned too. What is its price? We should like to purchase it. 
PICARD: He is not for sale. Commander Data is, um, is, um 
RIKER: Is second-hand merchandise. You wouldn't want him. 
DATA: Second-hand, sir? Oh, of course. A human joke. 
TASHA: Excuse, Captain, but the unidentified starship is coming in. Still no signal at all. 
BOK: Think nothing of it. It is under our control. 
PICARD: One of our starships under your control? 
BOK: Do not be alarmed, Captain. It is a gift from us. With which we honour the Hero of Maxia. 
PICARD: Who? 
BOK: Why you, Picard, of course. Do you not remember the Battle of Maxia? 
PICARD: I'm sorry, I do not remember it, DaiMon Bok. Data? 
DATA: Captain, he may refer to an incident which occurred nine years ago in the Maxia Zeta star system, in which an unidentified starship 
BOK: Unidentified? That fine vessel was Ferengi. 
DATA: Which you destroyed, sir. 
PICARD: The Battle of Maxia. I've never heard it referred to so dramatically before. My sincere regrets, Bok, but that vessel refused to identify itself. It simply attacked us. We defended ourselves. 
BOK: Such mistakes happen in space. 
DATA: Hardly a mistake, sir. Your report shows that it deliberately attacked. 
TASHA: Do you want the arriving vessel on main viewer, sir? It is only a thousand kilometres away now. 
BOK: Put it on your viewer. 
PICARD: Main viewer. 
BOK: There is no one aboard it. 
RATA: The log should be downloaded into the Enterprise's records. At a price. 
BOK: No price! 
KAZAGO: No price? 
PICARD: For what purpose? What (clutches his head in pain) 
TROI: I just felt something too, Captain. 
BOK: Perhaps it is his conscience? 
RIKER: Bridge to Sickbay. 
PICARD: No, no. I'm fine 
TROI: It felt as if it were something from your past. 
PICARD: It's right. I'm fine. What is this all about? 
BOK: It is about the battle I mentioned, Captain. A gift, in honour of that occasion. Look at that ship closely. 
PICARD: Magnify please, Lieutenant La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
PICARD: Why, it's the Stargazer. It's my old ship. How did you find it? 
BOK: It was a derelict, adrift in space on the far side of this star system. How it got there is none of my business, Captain. But now, that vessel is yours, if you wish to have it. 
KAZAGO: We are not selling it to him? 
BOK: Consider it an act of friendship. 
RATA: At no cost? Oh, ugly. Very ugly. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Bok and his officers have returned to their vessel, inviting us now to officially take possession of the Stargazer. 
[Sickbay]
(This time, Picard is on a full bio-bed) 
CRUSHER: Like before? 
PICARD: No. It hit with more impact. 
TROI: Hit? I'm sorry, but anything could be important. 
CRUSHER: You said you felt something yourself. 
TROI: I believe so. Like a thought, but rather mechanical in nature. 
PICARD: Are you sure it wasn't one of my thoughts? At that moment, I was remembering being at the helm of the Stargazer. A manoeuvre was being made. We were hit. Something's burning. I can smell smoke. Can you smell it? 
CRUSHER: There's nothing burning, Jean-Luc. 
PICARD: That was just part of my memory. 
TROI: Memory or nightmare? 
(Riker enters) 
PICARD: Well, it was strong, whatever it was. Are you ready, Number One. 
RIKER: Staff's waiting, if Doctor Crusher approves. 
CRUSHER: I'll do better than that. I'll go along. 
[Observation lounge]
(All the senior staff are seated around the long table) 
PICARD: We were traveling at warp two through the Maxia Zeta star system when this unidentified starship suddenly appeared and fired on us, point-blank range. 
RIKER: Where did it come from? 
PICARD: It must have been lying in some deep moon crater. First attack damaged the shields. In the confusion, they hit us a second time. 
TASHA: No clue who they were? 
PICARD: No names, no reason. Can you identify them, Vigo? If they come in a second time with our shields damaged 
TROI: Sir? Who's Vigo? 
PICARD: He's my weapons officer on the Stargazer. I'm getting quite caught up in this. 
RIKER: Your shields were failing, sir. 
PICARD: I improvised. With the enemy vessel coming in for the kill, I ordered a sensor bearing, and when it went into the return arc 
DATA: You performed what Starfleet textbooks now refer to as the Picard Manoeuvre.;
PICARD: Well, I did what any good helmsman would have done. I dropped into high warp, stopped right off the enemy vessel's bow and fired with everything I had. 
RIKER: And blowing into maximum warp speed, you appeared for an instant to be in two places at once. 
PICARD: And our attacker fired on the wrong one. 
RIKER: I did what any good helmsman could have done. You did it first, sir. 
PICARD: It was a save our skins manoeuvre. We were finished. On fire. We had to abandon ship. We limped through space in shuttlecraft for weeks before we were picked up. I haven't thought about this for years. 
DATA: Sir, the Ferengi are standing by for us to take possession of the Stargazer. 
PICARD: I want to go over to her. 
RIKER: I understand, sir. As soon as my people have made certain she's safe. 
CRUSHER: And after I have another look at you, Captain. 
[Stargazer Bridge]
(Tasha and Data are exploring by torchlight) 
DATA: (reading the plaque) USS Stargazer. Constellation Class. Starfleet Registry NCC 2893. 
(lights come on and Geordi enters) 
LAFORGE: I activated the emergency power cells. Amazing they still work. 
WORF: The rest of the ship is clear of surprises, Lieutenant Yar. 
LAFORGE: I read about this ship at the Academy, I never dreamed I'd ever be on her. 
TASHA: Yar to Enterprise. All clear, sir. (Picard and Crusher beam in) 
PICARD: Hello, old friend. 
DATA: You'll find this most intriguing, sir. 
PICARD: What did you find, Data? 
DATA: The last entry dated nine years ago, sir. By you. (reading screen) We are forced to abandon our starship. May she find her way without us. Apparently she did, sir. 
CRUSHER: How do you feel, Captain? 
PICARD: Oh, I'm fine, Doctor. Lieutenant Yar, run a structural analysis on the Stargazer for an impulse tow. Data, download all computers to the Enterprise and file. I'm going to look at my old cabin. 
[Stargazer Captain's Quarters]
(Picard is going through the books he left behind, and a trunk of clothes. Inside the trunk, something lights up, and he doubles over in agony) 
[Ferengi Science Lab]
(Bok is working at a double of the thing in the trunk) 
BOK: Try this, Hero of Maxia. 
(He slides the top of the sphere around and) 
[Stargazer Captain's quarters]
(Picard jerks up in pain and clutches at his head before collapsing. Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: Captain? Another headache? This really worries me. I want you back on the Enterprise. 
PICARD: But my things 
CRUSHER: I'll see they're sent to your Enterprise quarters. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Enterprise now taking possession of Stargazer, Kazago. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: Permission granted, Riker. 
RIKER: Actually it was quite a bargain, Kazago. I thought the Ferengi always made a profit on things. 
(Kazago growls and ends the transmission) 
RIKER: Set sub-warp speed for towing, LaForge. 
LAFORGE: Aye, sir. 
(Picard enters, in pain) 
DATA: Starfleet has responded to our request, sir. A tug will rendezvous with us and tow the Stargazer back to Xendi Starbase Nine. 
PICARD: Very well, Data. 
RIKER: How was it, Captain? 
PICARD: Very strange, Number One. Like going back to the house you grew up in, but no one's home, except the phantoms of the past. 
TROI: It has troubled you? 
PICARD: Not half as much as this damn headache. Take over, Number One. 
RIKER: Aye, sir. 
(Picard leaves) 
RIKER: What's wrong? 
TROI: I wish I could say. 
[Picard's quarters]
(The trunk has been delivered. Picard goes to lie down on his bed) 
VOICES [OC] Shields weakening, Captain. Torpedoes armed. Where are they? Oh my god, sir! Fire! Fire! 
[Ready Room]
RIKER: What is it, Data? Why all the mystery? 
DATA: The records of the Stargazer, sir. What the Ferengi call the Battle of Maxia. It seems the Captain's personal log contains a much different version of that conflict than the official historic account. 
RIKER: What are you saying? 
DATA: It would appear that the starship which Captain Picard attacked, had in fact, been under a flag of truce. 
RIKER: What? 
DATA: And apparently, the Captain destroyed the ship without notice or provocation. 
RIKER: Impossible. What about the fire aboard the Stargazer? 
DATA: An accident in Engineering. 
RIKER: And what proof? 
DATA: It is logged in his own voice, sir. Would you care to hear it, sir? Sir? 
[Picard's quarters]
PICARD [Stargazer log]: This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc Picard commanding USS Stargazer. 
PICARD: What does this mean? 
RIKER: I don't know, sir. It sounds like your voice. 
PICARD: It is, Number One. 
RIKER: I refuse to believe you ever said that. 
PICARD [Stargazer log]: I admit I must have mistaken their subspace antenna for a weapons cluster. Unfortunately, I fired our main phasers and our direct hit destroyed the unknown vessel. 
RIKER: I've assumed they've simulated your voice somehow. I've already put Data to work on it. 
PICARD: Thank you, Will. I never made that log entry, of course, but it still leaves you with a duty to perform. 
RIKER: I know, sir, I must report it to Starfleet. That's at least one full day for subspace communications to reach there. 
PICARD: And one more full day for their answer to return. I'd like the truth on this by then. I'd hate to have to prepare a formal defence. 
RIKER: I can't believe they'd ask for your command. 
PICARD: Why wouldn't they? With the Ferengi making these friendship overtures, I could become a severe embarrassment to Starfleet. 
RIKER: I'm certain the Ferengi are behind the faked log. No wonder they're waiting out there. Headache back, sir? 
PICARD: Damn! I'll call the Doctor again. 
RIKER: It's no wonder, with all this going on. Try to relax. 
(Riker leaves) 
PICARD [Stargazer log] This is a confession given by me, Jean-Luc Picard, commanding USS Stargazer, in the hopes that my belated honesty will be taken into account by Starfleet when judging my actions during a confrontation with an unidentified vessel. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Open hailing frequencies, Geordi. 
LAFORGE: Open, sir. 
RIKER: I'll take it in the Ready room. Secure channel, La Forge. 
LAFORGE: Secure, Sir. 
[Ready room]
RIKER: Starship Ferengi, this is Commander Riker here. I'd like to speak to First Officer Kazago. 
KAZAGO [OC]: A problem, Riker? 
RIKER: Are our channels secure on your end? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: It is now. 
RIKER: Are you aware of the details of the Battle of Maxia? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: Captain Bok has just made me aware of it, Riker. The infamy of your Picard is now fully known. 
RIKER: Infamy? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: I would call the wanton destruction of an unarmed vessel infamy. 
RIKER: And if I produced evidence that Captain Picard's log entry was falsified to indicate that? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: I can hardly imagine you contacted me to discuss an ancient battle. What do you want of me? 
RIKER: Just one question. 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: As you humans say, I'm all ears. 
RIKER: First Officer to First Officer, Kazago, if your Captain Bok knew about this, then why this peaceful meeting to present us with the Stargazer? 
KAZAGO [on monitor]: We freely give you back your derelict warship and now you accuse us of crime, Riker? I can bear no more insults! 
[Picard's quarters]
(the doorbell chimes) 
PICARD: Yes? Who the hell is it? 
(Crusher enters_ 
CRUSHER: Not resting, Captain? 
PICARD: More like dying, Doctor. 
CRUSHER: Over here. 
PICARD: What is wrong with me? 
CRUSHER: I wish to hell I knew, Captain, but something unusual has definitely been happening to you. 
PICARD: Why do doctors always say the obvious as though it's a revelation? 
CRUSHER: Why do captains always act like they're immortal? 
(she tries another painkiller) 
PICARD: No. 
[Ferengi Science Lab]
(Bok turns up the device) 
[Picard's Quarters]
CRUSHER: You didn't tell me it had been this bad. 
PICARD: It wasn't this bad. But it's getting worse. 
CRUSHER: This should help a little. It's got to be some kind of emotional pressure connected with the Stargazer. 
PICARD: I got this headache long before I even knew my old ship still existed. Still, perhaps you're partly right. 
CRUSHER: Want to talk about it? I'm here. 
PICARD: The fight at Maxia. I destroyed an entire vessel. An entire crew. 
CRUSHER: Did you have a choice? 
PICARD: I don't know anymore. I just don't know. 
CRUSHER: Commander Riker's told me about the altered log, if that's what's troubling you. 
PICARD: The last three nights I've, I've heard these voices. I'm on the bridge of my old ship. There's fire all around me. The klaxons, smoke. And then I give the order. And now the Stargazer is really here!. And that log. Am I going crazy? How do I know I was in my right mind at Maxia? How do I know I'm in my right mind now? 
(Crusher gives him an injection) 
PICARD: What was that? 
CRUSHER: Something to let you sleep. 
(She helps him to his bed) 
PICARD: Yes sleep. Sleep. 
(Crusher puts two small devices on his forehead, turns the lights out and leaves) 
VOICES [OC]: Shields weakening, Captain. Torpedoes armed. Where are they? 
[Ferengi Science Lab]
BOK: And now, dear Captain, you are ready to live the past. 
(He winds the contraption up to maximum) 
[Picard's quarters]
VOICES [OC] Where did they come from? Phasers, sir? Sir? Sir? What should we do, sir? Should we fire back? Fire, Captain? Fire! 
[Ferengi Science Lab]
BOK: You will injure yourself as you once injured me. 
[Picard's quarters]
VOICES [OC] Sir! 
(Picard opens his eyes, and he sees the ghost of the Stargazer's bridge and her crew. He is reliving the past) 
PICARD: Damage report! 
VOICE [OC] Fusion generator under surge control, sir! Power systems failing! 
PICARD: Sensor beam bearing on hostile ship! 
VOICE [OC] Seven mark nineteen, sir! 
VOICE [OC]: Phasers, sir? Sir? 
PICARD: Ready phasers, and lock! Stand by on warp nine. Heading seven, seven mark twenty. Engage. 
PICARD: Steady. Now, reverse and stop! Phasers fire, torpedoes away! Fire. Fire. 
[Ready Room]
DATA: By comparing the Stargazer's main computer log with Captain Picard's personal log, I have found checksum discrepancies, sir. 
RIKER: What does that mean? 
DATA: All information is time-coded by entry, and the bits when totaled produce an aggregate amount which 
RIKER: I don't want a computer science lesson, Data. Bottom line. 
DATA: One of these two logs is a forgery, sir. 
LAFORGE: Correction. The log just found aboard the Stargazer is a forgery. 
DATA: As I said, that is one of them, is it not? 
(Picard enters) 
LAFORGE: Captain. You're looking better, sir. 
PICARD: A little sleep, thanks to the good Doctor, works wonders. What report on the logs? 
DATA: Yes, sir. Whoever tampered with your personal log was clever. 
LAFORGE: But a bit clumsy. It's definitely a fabrication, sir. 
(Crusher enters) 
CRUSHER: Number One, I'd like you to take a look at this brain scan graph. What are you doing here? 
PICARD: I thought I was Captain of this starship. 
CRUSHER: Of course you are, but I 
PICARD: Thank you for the confirmation, Doctor. But now, except for Riker, I would like you all to return to your stations. Is that clear? 
DATA: Sir. 
(Data and Geordi leave) 
PICARD: You too, Doctor. I have business with the Commander. 
CRUSHER: Under protest, Captain. 
(Crusher leaves) 
RIKER: You have orders for me, sir? 
PICARD: Release the Stargazer from the tractor beam, Number One. 
RIKER: Sir? 
PICARD: The tractor beam. 
RIKER: Sir, are you abandoning? 
PICARD: No, but her inertia will carry the Stargazer along with us. Or did you sleep through the Academy lecture on conservation of tractor beam power? 
RIKER: No, sir. I'll release her, of course. 
[Sickbay]
(The output from the forehead devices is on a wall display) 
CRUSHER: Obviously, there's some thought process disorder, but I can't find a physical reason for it. Anything?;
TROI: I'm puzzled too. I keep sensing random thoughts but two sets of them. As if they were his, but intermixed other thoughts which are also his. 
(Wesley enters) 
CRUSHER: I'm busy at the moment, Wesley. 
WESLEY: I know, Mom, but this is important. When I went back to the main sensors in Engineering to try some more sensitivity experiments 
TROI: Does this have something to do with Captain Picard? 
WESLEY: Yes, ma'am, if this is what you're talking about here. I don't know much about brain scans but I glanced at these when you were studying them, and I noticed that these patterns are the same as those picked up from the low-intensity transmissions from the Ferengi ship. I went back and checked, and they're exactly the same. 
TROI: What kind of transmissions? 
WESLEY: I don't know. Engineering has nothing like it on record. 
TROI: Let's get to the Captain. 
CRUSHER: No, they might be affecting the Captain. To Riker. 
(Crusher and Troi leave) 
WESLEY: You're welcome, ladies. Adults. 
[Bridge]
CRUSHER: The captain, Commander? 
RIKER: Resting in his quarters after ordering both of you to your duty stations. 
TROI: There have been some, did he say low intensity? Some unusual low intensity transmissions from the Ferengi vessel. 
RIKER: Did who say? 
CRUSHER: My son. Transmissions which exactly match certain anomalies found in the Captain's brain scans. Something over there is affecting the Captain's thought patterns. 
RIKER: Computer, give me a location on Captain Picard. 
COMPUTER: Captain Picard is in Transporter room three. 
RIKER: What? Computer, emergency order to Transporter room three. 
COMPUTER: New information. Captain Picard is no longer aboard the Enterprise. 
[Stargazer Bridge]
(Picard beams in and takes the Captain's chair) 
BOK: Welcome back, Captain. 
(Bok is holding the device he has been using on Picard) 
PICARD: What is happening? 
BOK: Shields up, computer. 
PICARD: What are you doing? 
BOK: Collecting on an old debt. 
(Picard collapses in agony) 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Stargazer, Captain, respond! 
TASHA: Shields up, sir. No way to beam over any help. 
LAFORGE: Commander, I'm reading something very strange here. A low intensity beam of intermittent pulse inside this starship. 
DATA: I have a fix on it, sir. Inside Captain Picard's quarters. 
TASHA: You transferred some of his belongings from the Stargazer? 
WORF: Yes. Including a fairly heavy chest. 
RIKER: Go take a look, fast! 
LAFORGE: Commander, Stargazer is now powering up, sir. 
[Stargazer Bridge]
BOK: I have been waiting a long nine years for this, Picard. 
PICARD: I don't know what you're talking about. 
BOK: Do you not, human? Can you not remember the crime you committed against my very blood? You murdered my only son. 
PICARD: Your son? 
BOK: He was the commander of the ship you destroyed! On his first voyage as DaiMon. 
PICARD: The ship? The Ferengi ship that attacked me. Or is it about to attack me? 
BOK: And I have spent these years searching, seeking a proper blood revenge! And I found it! I am rich, Picard, yet two of these cost me the profits of an entire life. You are back in command of the Stargazer, Picard. Its computers will answer your orders. Die well, Captain. 
(Bok beams away) 
First officer's log. Captain Picard has beamed himself to the Stargazer, which is now moving away from us under its own power. 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Enterprise to Stargazer, please respond. Enterprise to Captain Picard aboard Stargazer. Please answer. Mister Data, what was Stargazer's condition? 
DATA: Considerable fire damage to interior surface reported, sir. But none of her main systems were crippled. 
RIKER: Armaments, Lieutenant Yar? 
TASHA: Six photon torpedoes short, sir, probably used when the Captain destroyed his Ferengi attackers nine years ago. Otherwise fully armed. 
(Geordi is examining the globe device from the chest) 
RIKER: What do you make of it, La Forge? 
LAFORGE: It seems to be a network of miniature circuitry, sir. Incredibly complex. Maybe an amplifier. 
RIKER: Where was it in the Captain's quarters, Mister Worf? 
WORF: His chest from the Stargazer, sir? Just where I had left it. He hadn't yet unpacked. 
CRUSHER: So, he may not have even known it was there. And if this is able to pick up or magnify thought-altering transmissions 
TROI: It could have prepared him for whatever is happening now. 
RIKER: Let's find out, or try to. Contact the Ferengi vessel, Lieutenant. 
TASHA: Hailing frequencies open, sir. 
RIKER: Enterprise to Ferengi vessel, we transmit visually. Do you respond? 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: Why is our gift to you under power, human? 
RIKER: I will discuss that with your captain. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: He is working in our ship's laboratory. Where is your Captain? 
RIKER: He's beamed himself aboard the Stargazer, and I'm wondering if this has something to do with it. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: How do you have possession of that? 
RIKER: It was found in our Captain's chest, which brought over from the Stargazer. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: It is a forbidden device. A thought maker. If your Captain is criminal enough to own one 
RIKER: Kazago, you know who controls those spheres. Now I ask you again, First Officer to First Officer. What's going on? 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: It is not seemly to question one's own DaiMon, Riker. I am not prepared to do that. 
TASHA: Sir, I have the Stargazer. 
RIKER: Switch, now! Enterprise to Picard. 
PICARD [on viewscreen]: Do not attack again! We are on a peaceful mission. Give your identity. You force us to defend ourselves. Phasers full up. Arm torpedoes. Why aren't the shields at full power? 
TASHA: We've lost him, sir. 
LAFORGE: When he put up the shields, sir. 
[Stargazer Bridge]
(Picard is surrounded by the ghosts of his crew, and the flames) 
PICARD: Damn, I said put fusion generators under surge control. You're moving too slowly. Arm the torpedoes, man! Vigo! Get a fire control party up here! 
VOICES [OC]: Shields weakening, Captain! Fusion generator online. 
PICARD: Weapons report! 
VOICE [OC]: Phasers coming to full charge, sir. Torpedoes armed! 
PICARD: Who are they? Identify them! 
VOICE [OC]: They're coming for a third pass at us, sir! 
VOICE [OC]: We can't take another hit, Captain! 
[Bridge]
TROI: Sir, I now feel anger from our Captain. Fury over whatever it is he is reliving out there. 
LAFORGE: The Battle of Maxia, sir. That's what it is. 
RIKER: The Picard Manoeuvre. What is the defence against that, Data? 
DATA: There is no defence, sir. 
RIKER: Then devise one, fast! 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: First Officer Kazago to human Riker. 
RIKER: Not now, Kazago. 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: We do not wish to become involved in what has become clearly a Federation matter. 
RIKER: Fine, fine, Enterprise out! 
KAZAGO [on viewscreen]: You should also know that DaiMon Bok no longer commands this vessel. His First Officer has confined him for engaging in this unprofitable venture. Good luck, First Officer Riker. 
DATA: I have computed a possibility, Commander. Since even deep space contains trace gases, sir, a vessel in the Picard manoeuvre might seem to disappear, but our sensors could locate any sudden compression of those gases. 
RIKER: And use it as an aiming point and blow our Captain to bits? 
DATA: This class starship has enough power to use our tractor beam on it. Seize it, limit it's field of fire. 
RIKER: Right. Concentrate shields at that point. Make it so. I hope you're right, Data. 
DATA: No question of it, sir. 
RIKER: Stand by! 
(Stargazer suddenly appears to be in two places at once) 
RIKER: Lock on tractor beam. 
(And the Stargazer is held) 
[Stargazer Bridge]
PICARD: Ready phasers. 
RIKER [OC]: Captain Picard, listen to me. 
PICARD: Vigo, is that you? 
RIKER [OC]: It's Commander Riker, sir! 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: Captain, hear me! Look around you, the Ferengi are using their thought devices on you. 
PICARD: Stand by. Who is this? 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: It's Riker, sir. Your Number One. Look for a silver sphere. Destroy it with your phaser. 
PICARD: Phaser. A sphere. Bok used it. 
RIKER [on viewscreen]: Destroy it! 
PICARD: Phaser. Destroy the sphere. Destroy the sphere. 
(After some hesitation, Picard destroys the sphere. The resulting explosion throws him across the Bridge) 
[Bridge]
RIKER: Are you all right, Captain? 
[Stargazer Bridge]
RIKER [OC[: Captain? Captain, are you all right? Captain, are you all right? 
PICARD: Where am I, Number One? 
RIKER [OC]: Aboard the Stargazer, sir. The sphere you destroyed, it's been controlling your 
PICARD: Bok! Where is Bok? 
RIKER [OC]: Removed from command, sir. Placed under guard for his act of personal vengeance. Seems there was no profit in it. 
PICARD: In revenge, there never is. Let the dead rest. And the past remain the past. Enterprise, lock on. Beam me home, Riker. 

