Computer, pause. I save her life, and now she's helping us with the mission. One good turn deserves another doesn't sound very Vulcan. Resume log. I have no reason to believe that Klaang is still alive but if what the Suliban woman told me is true, it's crucial that we try to find him. Computer, pause.  Have you ever known a Vulcan to return a favour? No, neither have I. Resume log. I still haven't decided whether to ask Sub-Commander T'Pol about this Temporal Cold War. My instincts tell me not to trust her. Computer, pause. Archer to T'Pol. Report.#
Computer, pause.  Hey, you know that you and cheddar don't get along.  Resume personal log. Before we left, Admiral Forrest said we'd be making history with every light year, but we're not going to do that sitting on our hands. Computer pause. Come in. Ensign.#
Computer, pause. Archer.#
Computer, begin recording. Subject's name, Ensign Travis Mayweather. Human male. Weight, seventy two kilograms. Age, twenty six Earth years. Far too young to be on this table. Cellular decay suggests that death occurred at approximately twenty three thirty hours. Preliminary cause of death, ventricular fibrillation induced by an isolytic shock. The vascular system appears to have functioned as a conduit for the discharge. The musculature shows extensive necrosis along the conductive pathway. There are subcutaneous burns over approximately twelve percent of the body.  The right phalanges and metacarpus exhibit signs of multiple thermal fractures. Computer, pause. Ensign? This is not an ideal time.#
Computer, pause. I'll feed you in a minute. Computer, resume recording. In a way, creating a stable warp field mirrored the, the flux of emotions my father felt when he embarked on. Computer, pause. Delete the last paragraph. Hell, delete the whole thing.  Quiet.#
Computer, pause.#
Computer, resume log. My radiometric analysis is complete. As I suspected, reversing course won't take us out of danger quickly enough. The radiation appears to extend outward at least half a light year in every direction except one. If I can chart a course between the stars we could escape the radiation before the crew succumbs. But I won't be able to pilot the ship alone.#
Computer, pause. Come in.#
Computer, begin recording. Dear Mettus, I know it's been time since I've written, and I know chances are slim that you'll respond to this letter. However, something has happened that compels me to try to reach you again. I've had an experience that has opened many old wounds. As painful as it's been, it's also changed something in me. I hope, if you're willing to listen, it might begin to change something in you.#
Computer, load the Xindi database.#
Computer, mute sound.  That doesn't sound normal, does it. I suppose we should investigate, hmm. I'm not going alone. Come, Porthos, come.  I'd be better off talking to my Pyrithian bat.#
Computer, begin recording. Dear Mister and Mrs. Taylor, I regret to inform you that            your daughter was killed in the line of duty. She was a fine engineer, and she died performing            her duties. Computer, stop recording. Delete that. Computer, start again. Dear Mister and Mrs. Taylor. As            Jane's commanding officer, it's with deepest regret that I inform you of her death. She was a            diligent engineer, very hard-working.#
Computer, begin recording. Mister and Mrs. Taylor, by the time you get this, Starfleet            will have already told you about Jane. Since I worked so closely with her, I wanted to add            my personal condolences. I have to confess, I've been putting off writing this for a while. I            convinced myself that my duties on Enterprise took precedence. But the truth is I didn't want            to face the fact that someone so young, with so much promise, could just be gone. But I'm            facing it now, and I find myself thinking how important she was to me. She was a great engineer,            and she was my friend. She won't be forgotten.#
Computer, pause recording. Everything's ready here.#
Computer, access satellite logs one three seven. Time parameters nineteen hundred and nineteen forty five today.#
Computer, establish an encrypted comm.-link. Starfleet frequency seven nine baker.#
Computer, locate Commander T'Pol.#
Computer, enhance grid three alpha.#
Computer, access biographical file, Starfleet Officer Hoshi Sato.#
Computer, freeze programme.#
Computer, freeze programme. Advance ahead one hour. Switch to objective mode.#
Computer, freeze programme. Thanks.#
Computer, add an appropriate crew complement, objective mode.#
Computer, freeze programme.#
Computer, Arch.#
Computer, how long before they reach Rigel Ten?#
Computer, end programme.#
