Future's End - Part 2
[Kerbside - Metro Plaza] 
(Paris is working on the camper van radio at a small table.) 
RAIN: Let me guess. Someone broke into the van last night while I was sleeping, tried to snatch the stereo, you bravely fought them off and now you're repairing the damage. 
PARIS: That's exactly what happened. 
RAIN: My hero. What's it like? Life as a spy, I mean. 
PARIS: Classified. 
RAIN: Oh, right. I forgot. But you said secret agent and nobody says secret agent. And you do that a lot. You get things not quite right, like you don't belong here. 
PARIS: Rain, you're fantasising. 
RAIN: And you're insulting my intelligence. Yesterday afternoon I picked up a UFO in orbit. Today my life is completely out of control, so don't think I'm too stupid to notice. 
PARIS: I apologise. 
RAIN: Accepted. 
PARIS: Would you also accept that there are lives at stake here? The more you keep asking me questions, the more difficult you make things. For everybody. 
RAIN: I'll try. 
PARIS: So, why'd you become an astronomer? 
RAIN: My brother had a telescope, a little refractor. You could barely see in the tree house next door actually, but it was enough. It was enough to see the rings of Saturn. I remember. I remember I used to think that they looked like jewels from a pirate's treasure. All I ever wanted since then was to reach up and touch them. 
TUVOK: Good morning. 
(Tuvok returns bearing drinks and bags of fast food.) 
RAIN: Agent Tuvok, what's up? 
TUVOK: Breakfast is up. Have you made any progress? 
PARIS: I think so. 
RAIN: Chili burritos, foot long hot dogs and Goliath Gulps. This is not a breakfast, this is an afternoon at Dodger Stadium. 
TUVOK: And that is a non-sequitur. Would you please hand me a burrito. 
RAIN: Everything you guys do is just a little bit off. 
(Smoke rises from the stereo.) 
PARIS: These things are kind of crude. So much for sending a locator signal. 
TUVOK: There is another option. 
PARIS: The radio dish at the Observatory. We could use the same set up 
RAIN: The same set up as I used to send that message to your whatever it is up in orbit. 
TUVOK: We will require your assistance. 
RAIN: No kidding. 
PARIS: Well? 
RAIN: Not on an empty stomach. 
[Briefing room] 
CHAKOTAY: Starling downloaded nearly twenty percent of our computer core while we were trying to beam the timeship out of his building. 
TORRES: I'm replacing those programmes as quickly as I can, but some of it isn't retrievable. 
KES: Like the Doctor. There's literally nothing left of him. He's just gone. 
JANEWAY: Unfortunately the Doctor is only one of our problems. Our weapons are offline, Tuvok and Paris are still missing somewhere in Los Angeles, and we've confirmed Captain Braxton's hypothesis. If Starling does attempt a flight to the future, it will most likely end in disaster. 
KIM: Captain. I've analysed Braxton's schematic. The temporal technology is incredibly complex. 
TORRES: No matter how much a genius this Starling might be, he is not a trained pilot from the twenty ninth century. 
CHAKOTAY: Without the exact calibration, that ship will rip the time-space continuum apart. 
KIM: The instant he jumps to the twenty ninth century, there won't be a twenty ninth century. Not for Earth anyway. The entire solar system will be destroyed. 
JANEWAY: I want that timeship. 
TORRES: Long range transporters are still down. We'd have to drop out of orbit again. 
NEELIX: Captain, I strongly recommend against that. The more legitimate news organisations have apparently decided that the Voyager image is fraudulent. However I've also been monitoring more official channels and the United States military is taking things just a little more seriously. 
CHAKOTAY: If we risk another pass through the lower atmosphere, there's a chance of getting intercepted by the Air Force. 
JANEWAY: If we can't get to the ship, maybe we can get to the man. Torres, I want 
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Captain Janeway. I'm receiving a transmission from Lieutenant Tuvok, audio only. 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, report. 
TUVOK [OC]: Lieutenant Paris and I are at the Griffith Observatory 
[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory] 
(Tuvok is using Rain's cell phone.) 
TUVOK: In the Hollywood Hills. We have modified the satellite dish transmitter to carry and receive Voyager communication frequencies. I regret the bad connection. 
[Briefing room] 
JANEWAY: That's quite all right, Mister Tuvok. What's happened? 
[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory] 
TUVOK: We have become associated with a young woman employed at the astronomical laboratory. It was she who sent the message to Voyager, but her lab is under the supervision of an individual 
[Briefing room] 
TUVOK [OC]: Named Henry Starling. 
JANEWAY: Oh, we've met Mister Starling. He has the timeship and he's the one who will cause the disaster in the twenty ninth century. 
[Griffith Observatory - Rain's Laboratory] 
TUVOK: Then it would seem we must find a way to stop him. 
[Briefing room] 
JANEWAY: Tell me about this young woman. Can we trust her? 
[Griffith Observatory - Rain's laboratory] 
TUVOK: She and Lieutenant Paris appear to be bonding on a cross-cultural level. I would have to say yes. 
[Briefing room] 
JANEWAY: Ask if she'd be willing to help us. 
[Chronowerx - Starling's office] 
(Starling enters, goes to his computer and activates the EMH.) 
STARLING: How's it going? 
EMH: I find your interest in my well-being to be less than genuine. 
STARLING: Try to be a little more grateful, Doc. The schematics I downloaded from your ship indicate you were stuck in the sickbay twenty four hours a day. 
EMH: I recently suffered a severe programme loss and I'm still in the process of retrieving my memory files, but apparently on a few occasions I have been projected into other locations. Undoubtedly you're using a similar procedure. 
STARLING: My holographic simulator. We use it to test our new microchip designs. I projected you through the emitters in the office. Your programme really isn't very sophisticated. 
EMH: That is a matter of opinion. Now would you please return me to my vessel. 
STARLING: Can't do that. Not yet. I've a few questions I want answered. 
EMH: If you have need of medical expertise, I would refer you to a more local physician. 
STARLING: All Captain Janeway's talk of a disaster I caused is just smoke. You came here to steal my timeship. 
EMH: That is simply not the case. 
STARLING: That timeship is from the twenty ninth century. Technology five hundred years more advanced than anything you've got. You'd love to get your hands on it. You figured I'd be any easy target. Some backwards twentieth century Neanderthal that doesn't know what he's got. But you found out otherwise, didn't you? 
EMH: A paranoid response indicative of bipolar personality disorder. If my history is accurate, southern California in the late twentieth century had no shortage of psychotherapists, competent and otherwise. I suggest you find one. Now, return me to Voyager. 
STARLING: I've learned your weapons are damaged, your ship's teleporter's half shot, but I didn't get all the personnel files. I have to know my enemy. Give me Captain Janeway's psychological profile. 
EMH: I'm a doctor, not a database. 
STARLING: I'd say you're a little bit of both. Start talking. 
EMH: Or suffer the consequences? Hardly. I'm a hologram. I experience neither pain nor fear of death. You have no means of coercing me. 
(Starling taps a key and proves him wrong.) 
STARLING: Pain. It's an interesting sensation, isn't it. 
EMH: I, I never realised. 
STARLING: How unpleasant it could be? This is what burning feels like. For a human to experience what you're going through right now, he'd have to be on fire. 
(Starling turns it off, and the EMH falls to the carpet.) 
EMH: How? 
STARLING: By reconfiguring your tactile response sensors. Easy as proverbial pie. Feeling more co-operative? 
(The intercom buzzes. Starling picks up the phone.) 
STARLING: I'm in a meeting, Dave. Put her through. 
[Metro Plaza] 
RAIN: Mister Starling. Oh my god, I'm so scared. They're going to find me. I don't know what to do. 
[Chronowerx - Starling's office] 
STARLING: Take it easy, Rain. Everything's okay. 
[Metro Plaza] 
RAIN: Everything's not okay. People are shooting at me! They're going to find me. I don't know what to do. 
[Chronowerx - Starling's office] 
STARLING: Yes, you do. You're going to jump in a cab and come to my office. You'll be safe here. 
[Metro Plaza] 
RAIN: No, they'll find me. 
STARLING [OC]: Where are you? 
RAIN: Metro Plaza, by the fountain. Please come get me. Please. 
[Chronowerx - Starling's office] 
STARLING: I'll send somebody. 
[Metro Plaza] 
RAIN: No! You. I'm really scared. 
[Chronowerx - Starling's office] 
STARLING: I'll be right there. 
[Metro Plaza] 
RAIN: He bought it, sort of. 
PARIS: What do you mean? 
RAIN: I don't know. His voice sounded a little suspicious. 
[Chronowerx - Starling's office] 
STARLING: Pack a lunch, Doc. We're going for a walk. 
EMH: In case you have forgotten, I can only appear in a room equipped with a holographic projection system. In short, I am going nowhere. 
(Dunbar drives Sterling to Metro Plaza, and opens the back door for his boss. The EMH gets out of the other side and gazes around in awe. He has a device on left arm. Starling has something futuristic in his hand. Paris and Tuvok see them.) 
[Shuttlecraft] 
TORRES: Interferometric dispersion is online. That should take care of any radar detection. And I've configured the shields to disguise our visual profile. Unless somebody gets right on top of us, we should look like a small twentieth century aircraft. 
CHAKOTAY: Transporters are online. We should be within range in about ten minutes. You can see the entire Baja Peninsula. I'd forgotten how beautiful the view is from this altitude. I never thought I'd see it again. 
TORRES: You trained as a pilot in North America, didn't you? 
CHAKOTAY: That's right. My first year at the Academy. Then I went to Venus for a couple of months to learn how to handle atmospheric storms, and then I dodged asteroids for a semester in the belt. 
TORRES: Sounds like you had a lot more fun at the Academy than I did. I remember dodging a few punches in the lab. 
CHAKOTAY: Only you, B'Elanna, could start a brawl in Astrotheory 101. 
TORRES: I guess I was just a little more enthusiastic in those days. 
CHAKOTAY: I guess so. 
TORRES: Chakotay, what if we're stuck here? What if we can't find a way back? 
CHAKOTAY: There are still a few isolated places left in this century. We'd have to keep low profiles. 
TORRES: We'd have to get jobs. 
CHAKOTAY: I've thought about pursuing archaeology full time. Maybe I could teach at a university or work on one of the important digs in Central America. There were still a lot of important discoveries to be made in this century. I could win a Nobel prize. 
TORRES: So much for a low profile. 
CHAKOTAY: What about you? 
TORRES: Highly qualified Klingon seeks position as engineer. 
CHAKOTAY: I'd hire you in a second. Let's start our descent. 
TORRES: Approach course laid in. Full power to thrusters. 
CHAKOTAY: Watch out for birds. 
[Metro Plaza] 
PARIS: Paris to Chakotay. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead. 
PARIS [OC]: Starling's arrived, with the Doctor. 
TORRES: What? How is that possible? 
PARIS [OC]: I don't know. Are you within range? 
CHAKOTAY: Almost. Another two minutes. 
[Metro Plaza] 
STARLING: I don't know, Doc. You were awfully quiet on the ride over here. 
EMH: I'm not programmed to make small talk. 
STARLING: Maybe just a little bit anxious about being out in the real world. 
EMH: It's just another environment to me. 
STARLING: Mind your manners, Doc. If your shipmates start any trouble, you'll be holodust. 
TUVOK: I have triangulated the position of the van, Chakotay. Stand by for tricorder uplink. You'll be able to lock on the moment Starling is inside. 
(Rain goes over to Starling.) 
RAIN: Mister Starling, I'm so glad you're here. 
STARLING: Tell your new friends to come out or their colleague here's going to die. 
RAIN: What are you talking about? 
STARLING: Let's go. 
RAIN: Oh, my van is this way. 
STARLING: We're taking my car. 
RAIN: I left my stuff in the van. 
STARLING: I'll send somebody back for it. Is there a problem? 
RAIN: No. 
PARIS: He's heading in the wrong direction. They're not going to the van. 
TUVOK: Mister Chakotay, there is a problem. 
(Starling, Rain and the EMH walk to the car. Then Rain sees Dunbar, and stops.) 
RAIN: That, that's the guy that tried to kill me. 
STARLING: No, he was trying to rescue you. 
RAIN: Where are we going? 
STARLING: To my office. You'll be safe there. 
RAIN: Office. Right. 
(They get in the car, the EMH in the front passenger seat this time.) 
PARIS: We're recalibrating Starling's position. You're going to have to take him out of his own car. 
TUVOK: There may not be enough time. I've determined the coordinates. 
PARIS: Now, Chakotay! 
[Shuttlecraft] 
CHAKOTAY: We've got a lock on Starling's position. 
TORRES: Energising. 
[Starling's car] 
STARLING: Dunbar, take the surface streets. The 101's a nightmare at this time (begins to dematerialise) 
RAIN: Oh my God! 
(The EMH struggles with Dunbar.) 
EMH: Run! 
(Rain gets out and runs to Tuvok and Paris.) 
[Shuttlecraft] 
TORRES: The pattern buffer's overloading. He's activated some kind of device. It's interfering with the transport. 
(Starling is finally beamed away, and the EMH punches Dunbar's lights out. He gets out and runs, too. Dunbar drives away.) 
[Metro Plaza] 
PARIS: Are you all right? 
RAIN: I guess so. 
TUVOK: Doctor. 
EMH: I've been equipped with an autonomous self-sustaining mobile holo-emitter. In short, I am footloose and fancy free. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've got Starling in our transporter buffers but we can't rematerialise him. 
TORRES: The interference is disrupting computer pathways. 
CHAKOTAY: Aft thrusters are down. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: Captain, we're close enough to the shuttle to use the short range transporter. 
JANEWAY: Janeway to transporter room one. Lock directly onto the shuttle's pattern buffers and energise.
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Acknowledged. 
JANEWAY: Chakotay, we're taking over from here. Mister Kim, let's go. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
CHAKOTAY: The buffers are purged. They've taken Starling off our hands. 
TORRES: We're losing altitude. 
[Transporter room one] 
JANEWAY: He's got what looks like a tricorder. It's putting out some kind of interference signal. 
KIM: I'm isolating it, and suppressing the amplitude. Got him. 
STARLING: Ah. Damn it. (collapses) 
JANEWAY: Janeway to sickbay. Medical emergency in Transporter room one. 
KES [OC]: Acknowledged, Captain. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
CHAKOTAY: Propulsion is offline. Voyager, we're going down! 
[Cellar] 
(General tools on shelves, with cobwebs over them. Torres and Chakotay are lying on the floor, bound hand and foot. Torres wakes, then two men open the door and walk to the top of the stairs. The leader is carrying a honking big gun.) 
TORRES: Where are we? 
PORTER: This one looks like an Indian, and that one, I don't know what her story is. 
BUTCH: What's that thing on her head? 
(Butch, the one without a gun, goes to touch Torres' forehead, and she snarls at him. He recoils.) 
PORTER: Careful, Butch, she looks like a fighter. 
CHAKOTAY: Who are you? 
PORTER: You first. Are you spying on us, Chief? 
CHAKOTAY: No, just passing by. 
BUTCH: In your new stealth plane? Who sent you? 
TORRES: Nobody sent us. We had engine trouble. 
BUTCH: I don't believe her. They're wearing military uniform, flying a secret plane. They're coming for us. 
PORTER: USS equals Federal Government. The Federal Government is the Beast. 
CHAKOTAY: We are not from the Beast. Just take us to our plane. 
BUTCH: Shut up! 
(Butch kicks Chakotay, and Torres kicks Butch's legs out from under him. Porter readies his gun.) 
PORTER: That'll be all. Call for reinforcements. 
(Butch leaves. Porter settles himself in a chair.) 
PORTER: It's going to be a long day. 
[Rain's Camper van] 
(Rain is driving.) 
RAIN: I've gone out with guys who've disappeared into thin air on the first date. 
EMH: I assume she is speaking figuratively. 
RAIN: But I have never actually seen it happen. And you, Mister Leisure Suit. 
EMH: There's a name I hadn't considered. 
RAIN: That guy punched you a bunch of times. You should have a black eye or a swollen lip, a broken nose. 
EMH: Try to relax. You appear to be hallucinating. 
RAIN: Oh, is that what I am? I'm hallucinating. Oh. 
PARIS: Rain, I'm sorry you got dragged into all this. 
(The cellphone rings.) 
TUVOK: Tuvok here. 
[Sickbay] 
JANEWAY: Tuvok, we've got Starling, but we've lost contact with Chakotay and Torres. Their shuttle went down over Arizona. Mister Kim is transmitting the co-ordinates to your tricorder. I want 
[Rain's Camper van] 
JANEWAY [OC]: You to find them. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. Tuvok out. Mister Starling is under control. I suggest you return to Chronowerx and continue the business there. The Doctor and I must make our way to Arizona. 
[Sickbay] 
KES: He suffered minor synaptic stress during the extended transport. Enough to cause unconsciousness but not any permanent damage. 
JANEWAY: Can you bring him out of it? 
KES: Yes, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Welcome to the twenty fourth century. I took the precaution of removing your tricorder. That's what it's called, by the way. 
STARLING: It didn't work. Should have blocked your ship's teleporter. 
JANEWAY: It works perfectly. You just don't know how to use it. 
STARLING: Give me some credit, Captain. I did pretty well for a primitive. 
JANEWAY: That's all over now. I've won, so disable the forcefield around Chronowerx. I want that timeship. 
STARLING: You're in no position to be making any demands, Captain. 
JANEWAY: On the contrary. 
STARLING: What're you going to do, shoot me? 
JANEWAY: The thought has crossed my mind. 
STARLING: Well, it wouldn't get you anything. I've rigged the timeship. If you try to teleport it again, if you even go near it, Los Angeles will look like the face of the moon. 
JANEWAY: You'd destroy an entire city? You don't care about the future, you don't care about the present. Does anything matter to you, Mister Starling? 
STARLING: The betterment of mankind. 
JANEWAY: It doesn't look like that. 
STARLING: Why do you think I want to go to the future, a vacation? 
JANEWAY: To get more technology. That's why you're launching the timeship. 
STARLING: I've cannibalised the ship itself as much as I can. There's nothing left to base a commercial product on. 
JANEWAY: And the future is just waiting to be exploited. 
STARLING: You just don't get it, do you? I created the microcomputer revolution. 
JANEWAY: Using technology you never should have had. 
STARLING: Irrelevant. My products benefit the entire world. Without me there would be no laptops, no internet, no barcode readers. What's good for Chronowerx is good for everybody. I can't stop now. One trip to the twenty ninth century and I can bring back enough technology to start the next ten computer revolutions. 
JANEWAY: If you even attempt to travel to the future, you risk creating a temporal explosion that could cost billions of lives, including your own. 
STARLING: I'm willing to take that risk. 
JANEWAY: In my time, Mister Starling, no human being would dream of endangering the future to gain advantage in the present. 
STARLING: Captain, the future you're talking about, that's nine hundred years from now. I can't be concerned about that right now. I have a company to run and a whole world full of people waiting for me to make their lives a little bit better. 
JANEWAY: Computer, reactivate forcefield. Chronowerx' stock is about to crash. 
[Cellar] 
PORTER: There are two forces at work in the world. The drive toward collectivity and the drive toward individuality. You are the former, and I am the latter. 
TORRES: We told you. We are not from the United States Government, and we are not 
PORTER: The Beast has many heads and I'm looking at two of them. 
CHAKOTAY: Listen, I used to think violence could be the solution to a problem, but it's not true. 
PORTER: You are no patriot. 
CHAKOTAY: I was a freedom fighter, so I thought. That gun will get you nowhere. 
(Butch enters with more men.) 
BUTCH: Porter, they're coming! The Feds. 
PORTER: How many? 
BUTCH: Three cars and a chopper. Two miles up Edgemile Road. 
PORTER: This is it, men. Get into position behind the house. Butch and me'll take these two. 
(The newcomers arm themselves.) 
PORTER: Looks like your friends out there still believe in violence. Too bad for you. 
[Rain's Camper van] 
RAIN: Let's recap. UFO in orbit, laser pistols, people vanishing. I've seen every episode of Mission Impossible. You're not secret agents. 
PARIS: I told you, I can't talk about it. 
RAIN: You can't keep a girl from hypothesising. I'm a scientist. I'm thinking, I'm thinking alternate dimension. I'm thinking close encounter. 
PARIS: Whatever. 
RAIN: Talk about a motley crew. We have the Doctor, a guy with the worst, worst taste in clothing I have ever seen. Tuvok, what a freakosaurus. Has the guy ever tried to smile? 
PARIS: Not that I can recall. 
RAIN: And you, Tom Paris. Sexy, in a Howdy Doody sort of way. Pretty goofy, although sometimes I think you're the smartest man I've ever met. All this running around you do, your mission. You're so dedicated, you know? Like you care about something more than just your own little life. 
PARIS: Is that so unusual? 
RAIN: Yeah. Whoa, I missed the turn. 
[Chronowerx - Timeship] 
COMPUTER: SATCOM 47 activating. 
DUNBAR: Engage Starling location sweep. 
COMPUTER: Sweep underway. 
(Starling is pacing the surgical alcove, under the watchful eyes of two security guards.) 
[Bridge] 
TUVOK [OC]: We're in Arizona. Chakotay and Torres are thirty kilometres north east of Phoenix. 
JANEWAY: Good. Get to them as soon as you can. 
KIM: Captain, there's a transport in progress. 
JANEWAY: What? 
KIM: Starling's gone. He's beamed to the surface. 
JANEWAY: He's got some kind of satellite in orbit. 
KIM: He sent a transporter signal through our shields like they weren't there. 
JANEWAY: Where's Starling now? 
KIM: Tracking the signal. He's back at the Chronowerx building. 
[Chronowerx - Starling's office] 
STARLING: Mister Dunbar, good work. I think it's time to get out of here. 
[Rain's Camper van - outside Chronowerx] 
PARIS: I guess this is goodbye. 
RAIN: Guess it is. Listen, are you busy tomorrow night? Because, er, you know, we should hang together. 
PARIS: I can't. 
RAIN: Oh, well, what about this weekend? You're married. 
PARIS: Absolutely not. Just very busy. 
RAIN: Yeah, you've got to get back to Mars, right? 
PARIS: Saturn. 
RAIN: That's perfect! I told you I always loved Saturn! So, give me your phone number. 
PARIS: Rain. 
(The tricorder beeps.) 
PARIS: Tachyon emissions. 
(A big truck is leaving the area.) 
PARIS: They're moving the timeship. 
RAIN: Timeship? What are you talking about? 
PARIS: You wouldn't mind hanging with me for a while longer, huh? 
[Cellar] 
POLICE [OC]: We want the aircraft, and the occupant from the aircraft. 
PORTER: Get off my land! 
TORRES: What are they going to do when they find a half-Klingon in here. 
POLICE [OC]: Who the hell are you two? 
TUVOK [OC]: Please stand aside, Officer. 
POLICE [OC]: I'm warning both of you to 
PORTER: They've got lasers! A black man and some bald guy. 
(The EMH enters. Porter and Butch's bullets go straight through him.) 
PORTER: God in heaven help us. 
EMH: Divine intervention is unlikely. 
(The EMH phaser stuns them, then unties Torres and Chakotay.) 
EMH: Tuvok's at the shuttle. He's starting repairs. 
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, how? 
EMH: It's a long story, Commander. Suffice it to say, I'm making a house call. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: It's Paris again, Captain, on audio. 
JANEWAY: Status report, Tom. 
PARIS [OC]: We just turned off the main highway 
[Arizona - Rain's Camper van] 
PARIS: Onto a desert road. 
RAIN: Hi, this is Rain Robinson. You don't know me, but the point is there is zero traffic on this road. 
[Bridge] 
RAIN [OC]: They're going to know we're following them. 
JANEWAY: Thank you, Miss Robinson. I'll keep that in mind. Tom, we've scanned the area. There appears to be a small landing field about ten kilometres ahead of you. 
[Arizona - Rain's Camper van] 
PARIS: It could be his launch site. 
JANEWAY: Stay on him. 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY: Our weapons are still offline and Torres hasn't finished repairing the shuttle. It might all be up to you. 
[Arizona - Rain's Camper van] 
PARIS: I'll do my best. Paris out. 
(Dunbar, who is driving the truck, makes a left turn and fires his phaser out of the window.) 
PARIS: Look out! 
(Paris grabs the wheel and they swerve, then follow.) 
PARIS: Get in behind him. 
RAIN: What? 
PARIS: Right off his bumper. Little closer. 
RAIN: Forget it. 
PARIS: One more metre! 
RAIN: Just shoot! 
(Paris shoots out one of the truck's tyres. It swerves and brakes, kicking up a cloud of dust, and so does Rain. The camper engine stops and she cannot restart it.) 
PARIS: It's flooded. Give it a second. 
RAIN: Well, do you think we got him? 
PARIS: I think so. 
(The truck is heading back towards them over a crest in the road.) 
RAIN: Come on. 
PARIS: Jump! 
(They do, then the shuttlecraft arrives and phasers the truck.) 
[Shuttlecraft] 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris. What's your status? 
[Arizona - highway] 
PARIS: We're fine. Good shooting. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
TORRES: Wasn't there supposed to be a timeship in that truck? Scanning the debris. 
CHAKOTAY: There's a temporal transponder, set to give off tachyon signals. Chakotay to Voyager. The timeship's not here, Captain. It was a ruse. Starling's going to launch from a different site. 
[Chronowerx - Timeship] 
STARLING: Activate hyper-impulse. 
COMPUTER: Hyper-impulse drive engaged. 
STARLING: Let's do it. 
COMPUTER: Command confirmed. 
(The timeship Aeon smashes out of the penthouse floor of the Chronowerx skyscraper.) 
[Bridge] 
KIM: The timeship is entering the upper ionosphere. 
JANEWAY: Track his course. Janeway to shuttlecraft, return to Voyager immediately. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Phasers are still offline. I've armed the photon torpedoes but we still can't fire them. The launch activation sequencers aren't responding. 
KIM: I think I can reroute fire command through the helm. 
JANEWAY: There's no time. Take the bridge, Mister Kim. Should be second nature to you by now. 
KIM: Captain? 
JANEWAY: Open the access port to torpedo bay one. I'm going in there to reconfigure for manual launch. 
KIM: Captain, with the activation sequencers down, you'd have to launch from inside the tube. It's too dangerous. The plasma exhaust will 
JANEWAY: You have your orders. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
TORRES: I've got the transporters back online. 
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, stand by. We're bringing you aboard. 
[Arizona - highway] 
PARIS: Acknowledged. 
RAIN: Your spaceship's waiting. 
PARIS: I've never met anyone quite like you, and I don't think I ever will. 
RAIN: Same here. Say hi to Saturn for me. 
PARIS: I will. 
(Paris kisses Rain goodbye.) 
[Timeship] 
STARLING: Initiate temporal inversion. 
COMPUTER: Initiating. 
[Torpedo tube one] 
KIM [OC]: Bridge to Janeway. The shuttle's back on board. 
JANEWAY: Good. I'm nearly there. 
KIM [OC]: Captain, the timeship has jumped to warp one. 
JANEWAY: Go to warp. We can't loose him now. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: Welcome to the Bridge, Doctor. 
EMH: Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here. 
CHAKOTAY: Status. 
KIM: The Captain's in torpedo tube one. She's preparing for a manual launch. 
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, get down there. 
EMH: How exactly to I get to torpedo tube one? 
CHAKOTAY: Ensign Kaplan, go with him. 
KAPLAN: Aye, sir. 
TUVOK: The timeship is powering its temporal field generator. Starling will be able to open a rift within seconds. 
KIM: Commander, the field he's creating? It's unstable. 
TORRES: If he enters the rift like this the timeship will create a temporal explosion. 
TUVOK: Events are occurring just as Captain Braxton predicted. The disaster may well be inevitable. 
CHAKOTAY: Fate, Tuvok? I won't accept that. Close to within ten kilometres. We'll ram him if we have to. 
PARIS: Aye, sir. 
[Timeship] 
COMPUTER: Temporal core has reached cascade potential. 
STARLING: Penetration point at nine six mark zero four seven. 
[Torpedo tube one] 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Bridge. I've reconfigured for manual launch. 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY [OC]: Arm the torpedo. 
TUVOK: Torpedo armed. 
[Torpedo tube one] 
JANEWAY: Lock on target. 
[Bridge] 
TUVOK: Locked on. 
CHAKOTAY: Hail Starling. 
KIM: On screen. 
CHAKOTAY: This is Voyager. Pull away from the rift. 
STARLING [on viewscreen]: Or what? Your weapons are down, friend. See you sometime. 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Janeway. Captain, we have no other choice. 
KIM: He's entering the rift. 
CHAKOTAY: Fire! 
(Janeway is knocked backwards by the launch gases.) 
[Timeship] 
STARLING: Uh oh! 
(The Aeon goes KaBOOM just before it reaches the rift, which closes.) 
[Turbolift] 
EMH: Captain, I insist you come to sickbay. 
JANEWAY: There'll be plenty of time for that, Doctor. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: The Bridge is yours, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Is there a chance in hell we can reopen that rift? 
KIM: Captain, the rift is opening. There's something coming out. It's the timeship. 
JANEWAY: Let's see it. 
TUVOK: We are being hailed. 
JANEWAY: On screen. Captain Braxton. 
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: Do you know me? 
CHAKOTAY: Yes, unfortunately. 
JANEWAY: You tried to destroy our ship in the twenty fourth century and the next time we saw you, you were an old man, homeless, in 1996. 
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: I never experienced that timeline. 
PARIS: Then what are you doing here? 
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: In my century we can scan time, much as you use sensors to scan space. The Temporal Integrity Commission detected your vessel over twentieth century Earth. I was sent to correct that anomaly. Prepare to follow me back into the rift. I'm returning you to your own time, to your previous coordinates in the Delta Quadrant. 
JANEWAY: Captain, we've been trying to get home to Earth for the last two years. Can you return us to our century but keep us here, in the Alpha Quadrant? 
BRAXTON [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry. Temporal Prime Directive. I'm afraid you're on your own. Braxton out. 
KIM: The timeship is re-entering the rift. 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, follow him in. 
PARIS: Aye, Captain. 
Captain's log, stardate 50312.5. We are again in the Delta Quadrant, at the exact time and place we first encountered the timeship. I've resumed a course for Earth and I've ordered the crew to the Mess Hall for a toast. 
[Mess hall] 
JANEWAY: Cheers. To the future. 
PARIS: Hear, hear. 
JANEWAY: How long will you be out and about, Doctor. 
EMH: If you're referring to my new found mobility, that is entirely up to me. 
TORRES: I'm still trying to figure out exactly how the Doctor's autonomous emitter works, but it looks like downloading him back into the ship's computer isn't going to be much of a problem. 
EMH: Apparently the reverse is also true. I will be able to make use of the emitter as casually as you might slip on a pair of shoes. 
TORRES: It's a little more involved than that. 
EMH: You know, Kes, now that I'll be to and fro, your responsibilities in sickbay will increase. 
KES: I'm up to the challenge, Doctor, but what about you? There's going to be more to your life than sickbay. 
EMH: Nothing I can't handle. You know, Captain, I've always wanted a little more privacy. Perhaps under the circumstances, my own quarters. 
JANEWAY: One step at a time, Doctor. 
PARIS: You should have seen it when the parking enforcement officer came over to the van. Tuvok tried to use pure Vulcan logic to talk her out of giving us a citation. 
CHAKOTAY: Did it work? 
PARIS: Of course not! 
TUVOK: Given Mister Paris's alleged familiarity with twentieth century America, it is a wonder we survived the experience at all. 
PARIS: Tuvok, has anyone ever told you you're a real freakosaurus. 
