Basics Part 2
(Later, the crew are walking up into towards a range of hills, with an active volcano on the horizon behind them. Some are carrying pointed sticks. Ensign Wildman is carrying her baby, and staggers briefly. Commander Chakotay walks back to her.)
CHAKOTAY: Let me help you. 
WILDMAN: No, really, I'm all right. 
CHAKOTAY: Don't push yourself. That goes for everyone. Perspiring wastes water.
(He takes the baby from her. There is a ground tremor. Captain Janeway leads them through a gap in the rocks.) 
JANEWAY: All right people, follow me. Let's take it slow. This is the most defensible location we've seen so far. The overhang should provide us with shelter, and the breeze should keep insects away. All right, let's make camp. 
[Outside tunnel entrance] 
(Meanwhile, Neelix's team is foraging. Hogan is by a hole in the rocks that has a skeleton lying in front of it.)
HOGAN: Neelix, look at this. They almost look constructed. Maybe the people on this world are cave dwellers. 
NEELIX: If that's true, I'd say this is a do-not-disturb sign, wouldn't you? They look humanoid. We might be able to use these as tools or weapons. Gather them up, Mister Hogan. Is there a problem? 
HOGAN: No, sir. Do you want all of them? 
NEELIX: Waste nothing. That's one of the first rules of survival. 
(Neelix drops the thigh bone he has picked up and leaves Hogan to his task.) 
CREWWOMAN: Neelix, over here! 
(Something rushes along the tunnel to the cave entrance. Hogan screams. When Neelix and others get there, he is gone.) 
NEELIX: Hogan! 
[Shuttlecraft] 
PARIS: Computer, repeat stabiliser diagnostic. 
COMPUTER: Damage has been detected in the stabiliser acceleration sensors. 
PARIS: I just repaired the acceleration sensors. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Vessel approaching on intercept course. 
PARIS: Signature? 
COMPUTER: Kazon patrol vessel. 
PARIS: Damn it! I don't have time for this. 
(They start shooting at him.) 
PARIS: I don't have time for this! Computer, all stop. Engage impulse. 
(It takes three shots to destroy his attacker.) 
PARIS: I told you, I don't have time for this. 
[Camp] 
(Night is falling.) 
CHAKOTAY: That's all that's left of Hogan's uniform, Captain. We didn't find anything else. 
NEELIX: This is my fault. If I hadn't told Hogan to pick up these bones. 
KES: You shouldn't blame yourself, Neelix. 
JANEWAY: Stop it. There's no time to worry about blame. Hogan was a fine officer and a good man. And our job is to make sure his death is the last one for a long time! I will not let this planet destroy my crew. Kes, see to it that everyone knows the tunnels are off-limits. I want clear safety protocols established. Mister Tuvok, we need weapons. 
TUVOK: I have already begun to design some rudimentary devices, Captain. 
JANEWAY: What's our food and water status? 
CHAKOTAY: I know it sounds grisly, but I can make solar stills with the material from this uniform. We could have water tomorrow. 
JANEWAY: Do it. 
NEELIX: Captain, none of the search teams were able to find plants of any nutritional value. 
JANEWAY: Then tell the crew to start turning over rocks. 
(She does so and finds some worms.) 
JANEWAY: If anyone balks at eating these, tell them it's an order from their captain. They may be the difference between life and death. 
[Sickbay] 
SESKA: Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Programme. 
(The EMH comes out of his office.) 
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. 
SESKA: Hello, Doctor. Remember me? 
EMH: How could I forget such an intriguing medical mystery? A Bajoran crewman with a Cardassian physiology. How are you, Seska? I see we have a new passenger. 
SESKA: Doctor, I have to inform you about a change of command. I'm curious how you'll react. The Kazon-Nistrim have taken Voyager. 
EMH: How interesting. 
SESKA: Does your programme have any problem with that? 
EMH: One humanoid is pretty much the same as another from a holographic point of view. I'm programmed to provide medical care to anyone who needs it. 
SESKA: Tell me, is it within your program's capabilities to lie or be deceptive? 
EMH: I've learned that a bedside manner occasionally requires me to, how should I put it, soft-pedal the truth. But bald-faced lying, calculated deceit? I don't have much experience with that sort of thing. But my programme is adaptive. If you really need me to be deceptive, I'm sure I could learn. 
SESKA: It's not exactly what I meant. I think we'll keep you just as you are. 
EMH: As you wish. Your baby's in good health. 
SESKA: Ah, you don't know how primitive Kazon medicine is. I'm sure Chakotay would be glad to know you're looking after his son. 
EMH: Chakotay's son? That isn't Chakotay's son. 
SESKA: But you're wrong, Doctor. I impregnated myself with his DNA. 
EMH: That may have been your intention, but it certainly wasn't the result. Here. See for yourself. 
(The EMH calls up his scan results on a monitor. Scan 4077 of course.) 
EMH: Your child has Cardassian DNA strands here and Kazon DNA here. Human DNA has a significantly different nucleotide sequence. 
SESKA: But I was so certain. He, he looks 
EMH: He's the first offspring of a Cardassian and a Kazon. We have no frame of reference by which to judge his initial appearance. Perhaps he will develop more Kazon features as he matures. 
SESKA: Maje Culluh will be so pleased. End Medical Holographic Programme. 
(The EMH disappears and Seska leaves. Then he reappears again to make his log entry whilst walking into his office.) 
[Doctor's office] 
EMH: Medical Log, Stardate 50032.7. I have determined that Commander Chakotay is not the father of Seska's child. I only wish there was some way to inform him. What am I supposed to do? Lead a revolt with a gang from Sandrine's? Conjure up holograms of Nathan Hale and Che Guevara? I'm a doctor, not a counterinsurgent. Get hold of yourself. You're not just a hologram. You're a Starfleet hologram. Maybe, maybe I could access a tactical database, teach myself guerrilla warfare. But that would take time. Computer, what is the crew complement? 
COMPUTER: There are eighty nine Kazon 
EMH: Eighty nine. 
COMPUTER: And one Betazoid on board. 
EMH: What did you say? Betazoid? 
COMPUTER: There is one Betazoid on board. 
EMH: Where? Who? 
COMPUTER: Please restate a single question. 
EMH: Who is it? 
COMPUTER: Crewman Lon Suder. 
EMH: Suder. Where is he? 
COMPUTER: Between decks eight and nine. 
EMH: Doctor to Suder. 
[Jefferies tube] 
SUDER: Yes! Yes, Doctor. I hear you. 
EMH [OC]: The ship has been taken over by the Kazon-Nistrim. 
SUDER: I know. I've been hiding. 
EMH [OC]: Can you make it to Sickbay? 
SUDER: I think so. 
[Sickbay] 
EMH: Computer, emergency medical priority one one four. Delete the signature of Mister Suder's comm. badge from the system. There is to be no record of his being on board. 
[Camp] 
JANEWAY: Huddle together in groups. That'll preserve body heat. This is no time to be shy. Tuvok. 
(Kim and Torres enter carrying ostrich-sized eggs.) 
KIM: Captain. How do you like your eggs? 
TORRES: We found a nest about two kilometres away. 
KIM: And that's not all. Cucumbers, or something like them. There are vines full of them two hours from here. 
JANEWAY: Take them to Neelix and tell him to hold off on the beetle stew, at least for the time being. How's she doing, Samantha? 
WILDMAN: I don't know, Captain. She seems tired, listless. 
JANEWAY: Maybe she's just adjusting to the environment. After all, she was born in space. Make sure you stay close to the fire, as soon as we have one. 
CHAKOTAY: Trapped on a barren planet and you're stuck with the only Indian in the universe who can't start a fire by rubbing two sticks together. I was never good at this as a child and I'm still not good at it. 
JANEWAY: Don't be so hard on yourself. None of the others have had any success with it either. Must be the wood. 
CHAKOTAY: We need kindling of some sort. 
(He stares at the Captain.) 
JANEWAY: What? 
CHAKOTAY: Something my father once told me about starting a fire. 
(A short time later, all the long-haired crew have had to sacrifice a lock to the cause. Kim gets to cut Janeway's hair.) 
KIM: There you go. 
(Torres takes it to Chakotay and puts it by the friction hole in the log. The spinning stick finally makes it catch fire. A local watches his warm his hands by the flames. Later -) 
NEELIX: If we put some bigger rocks around the fire, they'll reflect the heat better. I'm going to go get some. 
(Neelix leaves. Kes follows.) 
[Outside the camp] 
KES: Neelix. You shouldn't go too far away from camp. 
(She turns to go back and is grabbed by a local.) 
[Shuttlecraft] 
(Paris contacts the Talaxians.) 
PAXIM [on monitor]: Voyager's been taken by the Kazon-Nistrim. They're flooding every subspace frequency with the news. 
PARIS: Is there any word on the crew? 
PAXIM [on monitor]: I'm afraid not. 
PARIS: If you can help me with repairs, we can be on our way in a few hours. 
PAXIM [on monitor]: Lieutenant, our ships are no match for Voyager and your shuttlecraft can hardly be expected 
PARIS: Commander Paxim, my people are counting on you. Look, no one knows Voyager like I do. I know every vulnerability, every blind spot. Don't worry. I have a plan. 
PAXIM [on monitor]: Very well. We'll rendezvous in an hour. Paxim out. 
PARIS: One hour. I should be able to come up with some kind of plan in one hour. 
[Sickbay] 
(Suder enters through an access panel.) 
EMH: I was beginning to think you'd got lost. 
SUDER: I'm sorry. They're still repairing the ship. I had to be careful. 
EMH: We have no time to waste. According to the computer, we're at warp. We've got to figure out some way to slow the ship down before we get too far from the crew. That would seem to be our first priority. And then we have to get some weapons. Mister Suder, are you listening to me? 
SUDER: Yes. 
EMH: Oh. I see. Perhaps you consider this an opportunity. 
SUDER: Opportunity? 
EMH: To obtain your freedom from confinement. How foolish of me to think you would want to help. 
SUDER: You're wrong. I do want to help. 
EMH: Then what? 
SUDER: I'm going to have to kill some of them. 
EMH: It is possible. Violence might be required to retake the ship. 
SUDER: I've worked so, so hard over the last few months to control the violent feelings. I'm almost at peace with myself. I mean, I see the day coming when I could be. 
EMH: Mister Suder. If Lieutenant Tuvok were here, I know he would tell you there are times when violence is required to defend yourself, to defend your ship, to defend your crew. 
SUDER: Yes, there is a logical use for violence for everyone else. With me, once it begins 
EMH: We must do this together, Mister Suder. If you don't trust yourself yet, then trust me. I will help you anyway I can. One hologram and one sociopath may not be much of a match for the Kazon, but we'll have to do. 
[Camp] 
CHAKOTAY: There are signs of a struggle near the edge of camp. I found alien tracks. 
JANEWAY: We can't wait until morning to go after them. 
CHAKOTAY: Well, I'm better at tracking than starting fires.
TUVOK: I've completed a few weapons that might be appropriate, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: This is thoughtful of you Tuvok, but my tribe never used bows and arrows, and I've never even shot one. 
TUVOK: This is mine. I taught archery science for several years at the Vulcan Institute of Defensive Arts. 
JANEWAY: Take as many crew members as you need. 
[Planet surface] 
(Morning. Neelix and Kes are sitting in the middle of a circle of squatting locals dressed in skins. One moves forward and strokes Kes' hair. Another pushes him away and beats his chest like a gorilla.) 
NATIVE: Toos. Feelhi hiseri. 
NEELIX: Now, see here. You just keep your hands off her! 
NATIVE 1: Toluhee. 
NATIVE 2: Kahee! Kahee! Feelhi. 
(The native males square up to each other and fight like gorillas. A female screams as Chakotay walks down the slope towards them. The fight ends and they try to wave Chakotay away.) 
NATIVE 1: Sho! Kumi, kumi sho. 
NEELIX: Commander. Thank goodness. 
CHAKOTAY: Are you all right? 
KES: They haven't hurt us. 
CHAKOTAY: Have you been able to tell if they have a leader? 
KES: I'd say it's the one with the claw. 
(The oldest male with a claw on the end of a stout stick.) 
NEELIX: I agree. The other two seem to be trying to figure out what to make of us. In a manner of speaking. Not in a culinary sense, I hope. 
CHAKOTAY: Listen to the sound of my voice, and you'll know that I mean you no harm. I come without weapons. But I must have my people back. 
(The chief silences the males and talks to Chakotay.) 
CHIEF: Lum, usetum hator. 
(He pushes a female towards Chakotay.) 
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, but she should stay with you. I must take them with me. 
NATIVE 1: Kodor, kodihor, kotiheer!
NEELIX: Stand? Certainly. I'll be happy to stand. What, 0ver here? Fine, fine, fine, fine. 
CHIEF: Jimugan neesensak. 
NEELIX: What? No. No. No! That is unacceptable! 
CHAKOTAY: Kes, stand up slowly and walk away with us. 
(Neelix and Kes walk away as Chakotay faces the chief.) 
CHAKOTAY: We have to go now. 
(He follows Kes and Neelix up the slope.) 
CHAKOTAY: Just keep walking. Don't look back. 
CHIEF: Tahee! Tahee! 
(The tribe gives chase, and they run. Crewmen appear on the skyline, and one shoots a male with an arrow. A couple of spears are also thrown.) 
[Outside a tunnel] 
(The natives have the crew surrounded.) 
CHAKOTAY: In there! 
NEELIX: Commander, that looks just like the tunnel where Hogan 
CHAKOTAY: I know. If they know it too, they won't follow us in. Come on! 
(He is right.) 
[Engineering] 
(Cullah is watching from the top walkway. Seska is on the one below.) 
CULLUH: You'd think this crew had never seen a warp drive before. 
SESKA: No one tried to adjust the antimatter flow today? 
KAZON ENGINEER: No one. 
(Cullah goes down in the lift.) 
CULLUH: If you're lying, I'll have your head. 
KAZON ENGINEER: I swear it, Maje. 
SESKA: There should have been some warning before the antimatter injector froze. A drop in core temperature, a magnetic constriction alarm, something. He's either lying, or 
CULLUH: Or what? 
SESKA: Computer, run a level one scan for intruders. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Internal scanner relays have been damaged. 
CULLUH: I thought you said all repairs were complete. 
KAZON ENGINEER: They were. I thought they were. 
[Doctor's office] 
SESKA [on monitor]: I want a deck by deck search of all Jeffries tubes and conduits. Use the Federation tricorders. 
SUDER: Do you have a portable thoron generator? 
EMH: Yes, of course. We use it to treat radiation burns. 
SUDER: It's an old Maquis trick. Thoron particles neutralise tricorder sensors. 
EMH: Mister Suder, we need some weapons if we're going to retake the ship. 
(Suder goes into the access tunnel.) 
[Camp] 
(Baby Wildman is crying.) 
WILDMAN: She has a fever. I don't know what to do. 
JANEWAY: Let me get her some water. 
[Outside camp] 
JANEWAY: The baby needs water. 
KIM: Those tremors seem to be getting stronger. 
JANEWAY: Chakotay's team should have been back by now. We'd better look for them before it gets too hot. Get a few people together. I'll join you in a second. 
[Tunnel] 
(The natives start a brush fire to smoke them out.) 
CHAKOTAY: Come on. We have to see if there's another way out of here. 
(Further along, there is a small rock fall after a tremor.) 
KES: I feel a breeze. 
NEELIX: It's coming from this way. 
(That way lies a cave with a giant serpent sleeping in it.) 
[Outside the tunnel] 
(The search party see the natives outside the tunnel entrance.) 
KIM: Do you really think Commander Chakotay would go in there after what happened to Hogan? 
JANEWAY: He may have had no other choice. 
TORRES: How do we get them away from the tunnels? 
KIM: A couple of phaser blasts would do the trick. 
JANEWAY: Who are the fastest runners here? 
TORRES: I was on the decathlon team before I quit the Academy. The track and field coach was furious with me. 
JANEWAY: Anyone else here who can run? 
AYALA: Yeah. 
JANEWAY: Okay. You three will be the sprint team. Once you reach our camp, you should be safe. 
[Tunnel] 
CHAKOTAY: Which way do you like, Tuvok? 
TUVOK: From a tactical point of view, the options are not encouraging. However, moving past the creature might lead us to an exit. 
CHAKOTAY: All right, let's take it slow. Single file. 
[Outside the tunnel] 
(Torres, Ayala and a crewwoman throw rocks at the natives.) 
TORRES: Hey! Up here! 
AYALA: Come on! 
TORRES: Up here. You want us? You want us? Come and get us! Come on. Come and get us. 
(The natives give chase. Janeway, Kim and two crewman run down to the brush fire to clear the entrance.) 
JANEWAY: Pull this. 
[Cave] 
(A crewman slips on the ledge and hangs by his fingertips above the serpent. It stirs as they pull him back up.) 
KES: Look out! 
(It snaps at them, and they fire arrows and spears at it.) 
[Outside the tunnel] 
JANEWAY: Chakotay! Tuvok! 
[Cave] 
KIM [OC]: The tunnel is clear! 
CHAKOTAY: Go! 
[Tunnel] 
(They run back to the entrance. The serpent follows.) 
CHAKOTAY: Everybody out! 
[Outside the tunnel] 
JANEWAY: Move. Let's go. Go! Go! Go, go! 
[Tunnel] 
TUVOK: Chakotay, your spear. 
(The two men prod at a fracture in the tunnel roof, and create a fall just as the serpent reaches them.) 
CHAKOTAY: Go, go, go! 
[Outside the tunnel] 
JANEWAY: Come on, come on. Go! 
CHAKOTAY: Come on. 
[Jefferies Tube] 
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't understand it. Thoron particles are leaking into the conduits from somewhere. I can't get any other readings. Check the next level. 
KAZON CREWMAN: Yes, sir. 
[Doctor's office] 
COMPUTER: Incoming subspace message on the Emergency Medical Holographic channel. 
EMH: On the emergency channel? 
PARIS [on monitor]: Doc, I hope you're receiving this because if you're not, I'm a dead duck. I'm piggybacking this message on a fake Kazon signal I'm sending to the Bridge. I'm betting they won't be monitoring your Emergency Medical channel. I'm bringing help, but you have to do something for us. When the attack begins, I need you to get the computer to block the discharge from the backup phaser power couplings. You got that? The backup couplings. I'm taking out the primary couplings myself, but I need those backups to overload when they switch to them. Don't do anything until the attack begins or they might notice. That's it for now. I'll be seeing you soon. I hope. 
(Vessel schematic 4747 returns to the monitor screen. Suder returns through the access panel.) 
[Sickbay] 
EMH: Good news. Help is on the way. Mister Paris apparently was able to. Oh. 
(The Kazon crewman is dead.) 
SUDER: I didn't know what to do. I didn't think I should leave him there where they could find him. 
EMH: Of course. You were smart to bring him here. We can put him in a stasis drawer. 
SUDER: Well, we have weapons now. 
(Suder collapses and curls up on the floor.) 
EMH: You did what was necessary, Mister Suder. Five cc's of improvaline will help you calm down. 
SUDER: No! No drugs. I just need to breathe. See the light that is my breath. 
[Ready room] 
CULLUH: We've just received a message from our patrol ship. They have tracked down the shuttle from Voyager and destroyed it. 
SESKA: Were two people on board? 
CULLUH: They didn't say. 
SESKA: Two people were unaccounted for when we captured the crew. Have they found any evidence of an intruder on board? 
CULLUH: No. But the search has been slowed down by a thoron particle leak. 
SESKA: Thoron particles? That's an old Maquis trick to fool tricorders. 
[Outside the camp] 
TUVOK: After what transpired, I believe we have to prepare ourselves for an alien attack, Captain. Our priority should be to increase the weapons arsenal and to begin training everyone in the use of these weapons. 
JANEWAY: I don't like the sound of that, Lieutenant. We may have to coexist with these aliens a long time. 
TUVOK: Nevertheless 
CHAKOTAY: I agree with the Captain. We have to find a way to share this world with them. 
TUVOK: You may find nobility in the savage, Commander, but he is only interested in killing you. 
CHAKOTAY: I don't believe that. 
(Kes runs out to them.) 
KES: Captain! The baby is very sick. She's having trouble breathing. She has a high fever. There's nothing more I can do for her. 
KIM: Captain! 
(There is a nearby volcanic eruption.) 
JANEWAY: I think our top priority has just been dictated. Break camp. We've got to get out of here before it blows. 
[Sickbay] 
(Seska enters with two guards.) 
SESKA: Why are you still here? I shut down your programme when I left. 
EMH: You must be mistaken. 
SESKA: Where's your thoron generator? 
EMH: It was damaged on a recent away mission and left behind. 
SESKA: Who else from Voyager is on board? 
EMH: I wouldn't know. 
SESKA: I don't believe you. 
EMH: There are several dozen crewmen on board actually, and they have been working round the clock to sabotage your vessel. 
SESKA: That's a lie. At most, there is one, and I believe it is a Maquis crewman. 
EMH: Yes. Of course, you're right. It is one of the Maquis. 
SESKA: I won't play these games with a trick of light. 
EMH: Sticks and stones won't break my bones, so you can imagine how I feel about being called names. 
SESKA: I don't believe you could have sabotaged this ship alone. 
EMH: Very well. Since you are obviously about to disable my programme anyway, let me take the credit I deserve. I did sabotage the ship all by myself, with the computer's help, of course. As a matter of fact, one of your crewman came in unexpectedly and caught me in the act. 
[Stasis room] 
(Just off Sickbay. The EMH opens the drawer containing the Kazon crewman.) 
SESKA: You killed him? 
EMH: He left me no choice. 
SESKA: Why create a thoron leak if you're not hiding someone? 
EMH: I would think it's obvious. To make you believe I was hiding someone. I've had your people crawling through the bowels of this ship for hours looking for an intruder. 
SESKA: You're more talented in the art of deception than you led me to believe. 
EMH: I was inspired by the presence of a master. 
[Sickbay] 
SESKA: Computer, access Culluh Zero One. Disregard all voice commands from Starfleet personnel. Security lockout. 
(Thump!) 
SESKA: Seska to Bridge. What's going on? 
KAZON CREWMAN [OC]: A couple of Talaxian ships have fired on us. Nothing to worry about. 
SESKA: Goodbye, Doctor. I'd rather not take any more chances. 
(Seska shoots at his hologram control panel, and he disappears. 
(Down on the planet, the entire range of hills is starting to erupt. Suder returns to Sickbay.) 
SUDER: Doctor? Activate Emergency Medical Holographic Programme. 
COMPUTER: Unable to respond. All Starfleet voice access has been cancelled. 
[Doctor's office] 
EMH [on monitor]: Mister Suder. If you are hearing this, you have just unsuccessfully attempted to access the Emergency Medical Programme. I have programmed this message to play in the event that I have been disabled. This means, of course, that the fate of Voyager now depends solely on you. I can imagine how you must feel at this moment. I want you to know, you have my full confidence. You have already shown great courage and dedication to your crew. I have left an additional message for Captain Janeway and Lieutenant Tuvok noting your heroism, in case I am irretrievable. You know what you have to do and when to do it, and I know with our fate in your hands, we will prevail. Good luck, Mister Suder. 
(The ship shakes under the Talaxian attack.) 
[Bridge] 
KAZON ENGINEER: The Talaxians are retreating toward the nebula. 
CULLUH: We'll teach them the price for attacking the Nistrim. Lay in a pursuit course. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
PAXIM [OC]: Commander Paxim to Paris. 
PARIS: Go ahead. 
PAXIM [OC]: They're following us as planned. We're bringing them to you. 
PARIS: Acknowledged. Ready and waiting. I just hope you are too, Doc. 
[Planet surface] 
JANEWAY: This way. 
(The tribe are also on the move. A female calls out and another turns and screams. The first female is trapped by lava on a rock. Chakotay goes down to help her.) 
FEMALE: Makee nah! 
CHAKOTAY: It's okay. 
(He puts her over his shoulder and carries her back up to safety. The chief is impressed.) 
CHIEF: Tal kada. 
(He invites them to travel together.) 
[Shuttlecraft] 
(Voyager follows the Talaxians into the nebula.) 
PARIS: Here we go. 
(The shuttlecraft swoops underneath Voyager and fires at its targets.) 
[Bridge] 
CULLUH: What's happening? 
KAZON ENGINEER: Our phaser power couplings are under attack. 
SESKA: From where? 
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't see anyone. I'm not picking up anything on the scanners. Shields are buckling. 
CULLUH: Take evasive action. 
(Suder creeps into Engineering, then starts shooting the Kazons there. They are all down in moments. He drops the phaser rifle and sets about disabling the backup couplings. A Kazon shoots him in the back, but he manages to complete the sabotage with his dying breath.) 
KAZON ENGINEER: I have it on the scanners. It's a Federation shuttlecraft. 
CULLUH: Lock phasers. Destroy it. 
KAZON ENGINEER: Primary phaser power is down. 
SESKA: Switch to backup systems. 
KAZON ENGINEER: Confirmed. Phasers are locked on. 
CULLUH: Fire! 
KAZON ENGINEER: I don't understand. I'm showing an overload. 
[Shuttlecraft] 
(Energy plays all over Voyager's hull.) 
PARIS: Yes, Doc, yes! Paris to Commander Paxim. Stand by. I'm going to start transporting your people to Voyager. 
PAXIM [OC]: Standing by. 
[Bridge] 
(Everyone has been knocked out, except the baby, which is crying. Seska recovers first and crawls towards the sound.) 
CULLUH: Seska! Seska! 
[Ready room] 
(Seska dies by her baby. Paris and the Talaxians beam into a transporter room.) 
CULLUH: Seska? No. 
KAZON CREWMAN [OC]: Engineering to Maje Culluh. We're being boarded. 
CULLUH: Abandon ship. 
(He picks up the baby and leaves.) 
[Bridge] 
PARIS: I'm sealing off the Bridge manually. I've got to get the computer back online. All Starfleet voice access has been disabled. 
PAXIM: I'm reading a Kazon shuttle leaving the ship. There are also escape pods being launched. 
PARIS: Forget them. We have more important things to do. 
[Planet surface] 
(The chief places a leaf containing other herbs on Wildman's baby's chest. She stops crying.) 
KES: She's breathing better, isn't she? 
CHIEF: Sad katonk. 
NATIVE: Anuk! Anuk! Anuk! Anuk! 
(Voyager flies down through the atmosphere towards them.) 
[Bridge] 
PARIS: Welcome back, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Well done, Lieutenant. 
PARIS: I had a lot of help. The Talaxians, the Doc, Mister Suder. 
KIM: Suder? We thought he was killed during the initial attack. 
PARIS: No, he and the Doctor sabotaged the ship. Suder disabled the phasers before they killed him. 
[Sickbay] 
(Suder is laid out on a biobed, hands folded on his chest.) 
EMH: You would have been proud of him, Mister Tuvok. 
TUVOK: I offer you a Vulcan prayer, Mister Suder. May your death bring you the peace you never found in life. 
(Chakotay is by Seska's body on another biobed. He draws the sheet over her face.) 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, is this ship capable of sustained flight? 
KIM: All propulsion and navigational systems are functioning within normal parameters, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Good. Take us away from our new home and set a course for the old one, Mister Paris. Warp eight. 
PARIS: Heading four one, mark seven seven. Destination, Alpha Quadrant. 
JANEWAY: Engage. 
