Year of Hell - Part 1
Day 1 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge] 
(Above a city built on the usual grid system with travel tubes in mid air, a spaceship with six projections is hanging. The projections hold a massive 'jewel' at one end, which magnifies the energy pulse the ship aims at the city. The city is transformed into woodland and open meadows.) 
OBRIST: Temporal incursion is complete. All organisms and man-made objects have been eradicated. 
ANNORAX: Probe the continuum. Has our target event been achieved? 
OBRIST: Negative. Negative target event. I don't understand, sir. We spent months making these calculations. 
ANNORAX: Time is patient, so we must be patient with it. Eradicating a single Zahl colony wasn't enough for a total restoration. We have to work on a larger scale. Take us to the Zahl homeworld. Prepare a new set of calculations. We must erase the entire species from time. Every lifeform, every molecule. 
[Astrometrics lab] 
JANEWAY: Space, the great unknown, Only now we're going to know it a little better. Harry? 
(An image of our galaxy from above is divided into grids. Note to the interested, the long wig has finally been discarded and Janeway has Kate Mulgrew's natural shorter length hair.)
CHAKOTAY: Before there were maps and globes, let alone radar and subspace sensors, mariners navigated by the stars. We're returning to that tried and true method, but this time there's a difference. 
JANEWAY: Ensign Kim and Seven of Nine have merged Starfleet and Borg ingenuity to create this new technology.And I'm sure I speak for the entire crew when I say, thank you. Now, how the hell does it work? 
SEVEN: Astrometric sensors measure the radiative flux of up to three billion stars simultaneously. The computer then calculates our position relative to the centre of the galaxy. 
KIM: This mapping technology is ten times more accurate than what we've been using. Seven, will you do the honours? We've plotted a new course home. 
SEVEN: By my estimates this trajectory will eliminate five years from your journey. 
NEELIX: Our journey. Nice work, Seven. 
TORRES: That region of space we're about to enter. It looks like it has a lot of M-class planets. 
SEVEN: It does. Spatial grid zero zero five. Primary species, the Zahl. 
TUVOK: What do we know about this species? 
SEVEN: Technologically advanced but nonconfrontational. Their resistance quotient is quite low. 
CHAKOTAY: Thank you all for coming. We've got a lot of work to do, so 
EMH: I'd like to say a few words if I may. I've prepared a speech for this occasion. When I was first activated on Stardate 48315, and I found myself mano a mano with the Delta Quadrant, I didn't think we'd survive a week, let alone three years. There was strife. There was discord. You were all at each others throats. But over time, I've had the pleasure and pride of watching this crew learn to work together as colleagues, even friends. 
PARIS: Hear, hear. 
EMH: Who would have thought that this eclectic group of voyagers could actually become a family? Starfleet, Maquis, Klingon, Talaxian, hologram, Borg, even Mister Paris. Granted, we've had our share of difficulties. One might say, we've seen the best of times and the worst of times. I'd now like to recount some of those times from my unique perspective. Under the category of best of times, I invite you all to recall the moment when I 
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge to captain. 
JANEWAY: Janeway here. 
CREWMAN [OC]: We're being hailed. A vessel off the port bow. 
CHAKOTAY: On our way. 
EMH: Perhaps we could all reconvene later? 
[Bridge] 
LANG: They're firing on us, Captain. 
TUVOK: It's a small vessel, fifteen lifeforms aboard. Low warp capacity, limited armaments. They pose no threat. 
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Good day, sir. Have we offended you in some way? 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You will reverse course immediately. This region is in dispute. You have no business in Krenim space. 
JANEWAY: I was under the impression we were entering Zahl territory. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: The Zahl have no legitimate claim here. They have taken what is ours. Reverse course or be destroyed. 
JANEWAY: With all due respect, unless you've got something a little bigger in your torpedo tubes, I'm not turning around. But I'm certainly willing to discuss this issue with you. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: No discussion! No compromise! 
(Transmission ends.)
TUVOK: They are in retreat. 
CHAKOTAY: His bark's obviously worse than his bite. 
JANEWAY: He seems rather intent. Let's go to yellow alert. Maintain our course. Maybe the Zahl can give us some answers. 
Day 4 
[Briefing room] 
(Voyager hangs nose to nose with two large spaceships. Unlike the Krenim and their severe uniforms, the Zahl go for a more casual look.)
ZAHL OFFICIAL: As long as you travel in Zahl territory you travel among friends. I apologise for your mishap with the Krenim. 
JANEWAY: It was hardly traumatic, but I am curious. The Krenim claim this region as their own. 
ZAHL OFFICIAL: The Krenim dominated this space many years ago. They possessed deadly weapons based on temporal science, and it kept them in power for a long time. But a generation ago we fought the Krenim. We defeated them and took back the planets that they had annexed, dismantled their military forces. Their ships still wander our territory making grandiose claims. Don't let them trouble you. Now, tell me about Voyager. A single ship alone, half a galaxy from home. How exciting for you. 
KIM [OC]: Bridge to Captain. Sorry to interrupt, but the Krenim vessel is back. They're demanding to speak with you. 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY: Hello again. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You've ignored our warnings, and now you consort with our enemy. 
ZAHL OFFICIAL: Leave this space or I'll seize your vessel and send you home in a cargo container. 
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, please. Believe me, we're not conspiring against you. 
KIM: Captain, there's a spatial distortion heading towards us. Whatever it is, it's huge. Five light years across and it's expanding. 
TUVOK: Tracking it's origin. A vessel near the Zahl homeworld. 
ZAHL OFFICIAL: What? 
TUVOK: It appears to be a massive build-up of temporal energy. Some kind of space-time shock wave. 
JANEWAY: Tom. 
PARIS: It's destabilising our warp field. I've lost engines. 
JANEWAY: Shields to full. Secure primary systems. All hands, brace for impact.
(The shock wave makes the Zahl ships vanish and the small Krenim ship turns into a big battle cruiser. As it passes through Voyager, the Zahl official disappears and Ms Lang is lying on the deck.)
CHAKOTAY: She's dead. 
TUVOK: Shields at seventy percent. The Krenim are firing again. We're being hailed. 
JANEWAY: It's about time. On screen. We've done nothing to provoke these attacks. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Your presence in our space is provocation enough. 
JANEWAY: We've been trying to communicate with your vessels but the only answer I get is weapons fire. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: State your identity. 
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: And your reason for violating our borders? 
JANEWAY: We're simply trying to get home. If you'd kindly allow us to pass through 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: No. You will submit to the Krenim Imperium. I would prefer to seize your vessel before it is too badly damaged. Surrender now and I will forego the execution of your crew. 
JANEWAY: I don't respond well to threats. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Then prepare to be boarded. 
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: All hands, battle stations. This is turning into the Week of Hell. 
TUVOK: They are charging weapons. Three seconds to impact. 
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. 
KIM: Direct hit to our secondary hull. 
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand why these torpedoes are ripping right through our shields. 
TUVOK: Their weapons are chronoton based. They're penetrating our shields because they're in a state of temporal flux. 
JANEWAY: Then lets exercise the better part of valour. Get us out of here, warp six. 
PARIS: Warp six. No sign of pursuit. 
JANEWAY: Damage report. 
TUVOK: Fifteen wounded. Main power is down. We've lost environmental control on decks seven and eight. The computer is offline. 
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, do we have any sensors left? 
KIM: Short range only. 
JANEWAY: Commander, put the ship on twenty four hour tactical alert. Tuvok, analyse whatever data we've got on those chronoton torpedoes. See if you can modify our shielding. When those Krenim attack again, I want to be ready. 
[Krenim Timeship - Annorax's office] 
(Annorax is studing a small object held in a clear pyramid.) 
ANNORAX: Enter. 
OBRIST: Sir, you were correct. The Zahl homeworld was the focal point. Its erasure has produced a complete temporal restoration. 
ANNORAX: Complete? 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
ANNORAX: If I told you to count the stars in the cosmos would the task ever be complete? 
OBRIST: Sir? 
ANNORAX: Our attempts may be sufficient. They may be even relatively successful, but they will never be complete. Choose your words with more precision. 
OBRIST: My apologies. 
ANNORAX: What were the exact results? 
OBRIST: The Krenim Imperium has been restored to power. Our territory now includes eight hundred and forty nine inhabited worlds spanning five thousand parsecs. 
ANNORAX: Counter indications? 
OBRIST: Negligible. No superior enemy forces, no unexpected diseases. Calculations indicate a ninety eight percent restoration. Our race is thriving once again. 
ANNORAX: The, er, the colony at Kyana Prime. That was restored as well? 
OBRIST: No, sir. In this timeline the Imperium does not extend that far. 
(Annorax puts down the pyramid.)
ANNORAX: Then our mission has failed. Begin calculations for the next incursion. 
OBRIST: Sir, we have just accomplished the impossible. A ninety eight percent restoration. Another incursion, even a minor one, could undermine everything. We should dismantle this weapon and rejoin our people. 
ANNORAX: No, not until every colony, every individual, every blade of grass is restored. 
OBRIST: You said yourself our task will never be complete. Please. We should be satisfied with what we have accomplished. For two hundred years, we have never come this close. 
ANNORAX: Not close enough. 
OBRIST: If I may speak my thoughts. Many among the crew are convinced that you have lost your objectivity. They think your quest for precision is unrealistic. Sir, we will never restore one hundred percent of what we had. We can manipulate the time continuum for another ten centuries. It will never happen. 
ANNORAX: Return to your station and begin a new set of calculations. Is that clear? 
OBRIST: Perfectly. 
ANNORAX: You surprise me, Obrist, After so many years, you still perceive time through conventional eyes. Never is a word that has no meaning here. As long as we stay on this vessel, protected from space-time, we have all eternity to accomplish our mission. 
OBRIST: Of course, sir. 
Day 32 
[Bridge] 
(Small pieces of debris littler the deck.)
JANEWAY: Return fire. 
TUVOK: Weapons are down. My attempt to modify the shielding was unsuccessful. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, during that last exchange we did some damage. The Krenim's aft shields are down. They're vulnerable. 
PARIS: We've got to hit them, now. 
KIM: With what? Phaser banks are burned out, torpedo launchers are offline. 
EMH [OC]: Doctor to bridge. We've got a power overload in Sickbay. I need an engineer down here right away. 
CHAKOTAY: Stand by, Doctor. Harry, can you handle it from here? 
KIM: No, sir. The overload's spreading. Half that deck is going to blow in less than five minutes. 
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, get your patients out of there. All hands, this is the bridge. Emergency evacuation deck five. 
JANEWAY: How many torpedoes do we have left? 
TUVOK: Eleven. 
JANEWAY: Arm four of them. Stand by to open the launch doors. We're going to deploy them like mines. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Tom, I need your finesse. Let the Krenim get within five thousand metres of us. 
PARIS: No problem. 
[Deck five] 
EMH: Keep moving. Quickly, please, move quickly. 
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in three minutes. 
[Bridge] 
TUVOK: Torpedoes armed and ready. 
PARIS: They're within range. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok, do it. 
(The massive Krenim battleship flies into the photon torpedoes and goes KaBOOM!)
PARIS: Got him! 
KIM: The conduits on deck five are overloading. Thirty seconds till they blow. 
[Deck five] 
EMH: Keep moving! Please hurry. That's it. 
(The EMH gets his people to a Jefferies tube hatch at the end of the corridor.)
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse 
[Bridge] 
COMPUTER: In twenty seconds.
KIM: Fifteen seconds! 
[Jefferies Tube deck five] 
(The EMH holds the hatch open as two people run along the corridor.)
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in ten seconds. Warning, structural collapse in five, four, three, two, one.
(He lets the hatch close. An explosion rips along the whole starboard side of the main section, throwing the bridge crew to the deck.) 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY: Report! 
KIM: Sections ten through fifty three on deck five are gone. 
JANEWAY: Casualties? 
TUVOK: Reports are coming in. Twelve wounded, many of them critically. The Doctor is setting up a triage facility in the mess hall. Two crew members were killed in the breach. 
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Assemble a security team. Survey the ship deck by deck. I want a full damage report. I'll be in my ready room. You have the bridge. What's left of it. 
[Ready room] 
(Also with debris on all surfaces. It is dark, just one light flickering.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Sorry about the mess. 
CHAKOTAY: You should see my place. They haven't looked as bad since my old Academy days. 
JANEWAY: Is there something on your mind? 
(She hands him her favourite teapot, still intact.)
CHAKOTAY: Yes, but you're not going to like it. 
JANEWAY: That's never stopped you before. Broken.
(The desk computer.)
CHAKOTAY: I'll be blunt. Our strategy is failing. It was a good idea to try and create temporal shielding but it isn't working. 
JANEWAY: Not yet, but it will. With every attack we're getting more information about their chronoton weapons. 
CHAKOTAY: How many more attacks will it take? Before long, there won't be a ship left to protect. 
JANEWAY: We don't have a choice. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we do. 
JANEWAY: Here comes the part I'm not going to like. 
CHAKOTAY: We should consider leaving the ship behind, breaking the crew into smaller groups. Escape pods, shuttles, each one with its own course. If all goes well, we'll rendezvous on the other side of Krenim space. 
JANEWAY: Then what? 
CHAKOTAY: We'll cross that bridge when we come to it. But at least we'd be increasing our chances of survival. 
JANEWAY: Abandon ship? The answer's no. I'm not breaking up the family, Chakotay. We're stronger as a team. One crew, one ship. The moment we split apart, we lose the ability to pool our talents. We become vulnerable. We'll get picked off one by one. Now I say we make our stand. Together. 
CHAKOTAY: To be honest, I wasn't too fond of the idea myself. 
JANEWAY: As long as Voyager's in one piece, we stay. 
CHAKOTAY: We stay. This looks like it stayed in one piece. Where does this go? 
JANEWAY: My lucky teacup. Right over here. 
(Whumph!)
PARIS [OC]: Red alert. We're under attack. Two Krenim warships off the port bow.
(Janeway puts her lucky teacup on the desk, but vibrations from the attack shake it onto the deck, where it breaks. Can I ask a question here? What happened to the report on the Krenim's weaponry that Kes compiled after the events of 'Before and After'?) 
Day 47 
[Turbolift] 
TORRES: When are they going to get us out of here? 
KIM: Try to relax. Let's get back to the game. Grace Kelly. Cat burglars. The Riviera. Name the title and the male lead. 
TORRES: To Catch A Thief. 
KIM: Right. 
TORRES: Clark Gable. 
KIM: Wrong. Cary Grant. 
TORRES: I've seen the holographic version twice. It's Clark Gable. 
KIM: I think you're getting them confused because they have the same initials. It was Grant. 
TORRES: No more twentieth century entertainment. I'm terrible at it. My turn. Category, athletics. 
KIM: Fire away. 
TORRES: A notorious athlete, Parrises Squares championship finals, er, controversial decision. 
KIM: M'Kota R'Cho. The first and only Klingon to play the game. During the finals of 2342 one of the referees called a penalty against his team. R'Cho strangled him. 
TORRES: Impressive. 
KIM: You're looking at a true sports aficionado. Let's see, how about interstellar history? 
TORRES: Oh, great. You pick the one subject I almost failed at the Academy. Go ahead and ask. Ow! 
KIM: Are you all right? 
TORRES: It just hurts a little. Feels like we've been here for days. 
KIM: Actually, it's been about six hours. Try to hang on, B'Elanna. The emergency crews are going find us any minute. Come on, hurry up! 
TORRES: Go ahead and ask your stupid question before I pass out and you don't have anybody to play with. 
KIM: Okay. Er, it's a famous ship. Er, pre-warp civilisation. Er, Montana. Er, second stage had chemical engines. 
TORRES: Another clue. 
KIM: Vulcans. Er, Earth, First Contact. 
TORRES: Oh, right, right. Er, er, er, Zephram Cochrane's ship. What was it called? Oh, it's on the tip of my tongue. Ow!
KIM: Okay, here, here, you'd better lie down now. Enough trivia for now. 
TORRES: No, no, I'm going to get this one. 
(The turbolift doors are crowbarred open.)
SEVEN: Lieutenant. Ensign. 
TORRES: It's about time. What happened to the turbolift? 
SEVEN: During the last attack nineteen main power relays were severed. The entire turbolift system is non-operational. 
[Corridor] 
TORRES: Get me to the Jefferies tube network on deck eleven. The EPS manifold must have taken a hit, too. 
KIM: Seven of Nine can go take a look. We have to get you to the Doctor. 
TORRES: All right. 
SEVEN: The Phoenix. 
KIM: What? 
SEVEN: The correct response to your query. The vessel Ensign Kim was describing. It was designated the Phoenix. 
KIM: Not bad. I didn't realise you knew so much about Earth history. 
SEVEN: I don't, but the Borg were present during those events. 
KIM: Really. 
SEVEN: It's a complicated story. Perhaps another time. 
TORRES: I think so. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Transverse bulkheads. We've set up emergency forcefields between all decks and every section. In the event of a cataclysmic breach most of us will be protected. 
JANEWAY: Ingenious. 
CHAKOTAY: Actually, you can thank Mister Paris. He came up with the idea. 
PARIS: I was inspired by an ancient steamship, the Titanic. The engineers of the day constructed a series of special bulkheads, sort of like a honeycomb, that would lower into place if they suffered a major hull breach. In theory, they could stay afloat even with half the ship filled with water. 
JANEWAY: The Titanic? As I recall, it sank. 
PARIS: Well, let's just say I've made a few improvements.
JANEWAY: I knew your fixation with history would come in handy someday. Good work. 
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Lieutenant Paris. 
PARIS: Go ahead, Doc. 
EMH [OC]: Report to the mess hall at once. More wounded are one the way. 
PARIS: I'll be right there. I'm a popular guy today. 
[Jefferies tube] 
(Seven forces open a stuck hatch and sees the same sight that Kes did there back in Before and After. She scans the chronoton torpedo.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Tuvok. 
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here. 
SEVEN: There is an undetonated chronoton torpedo lodged in the starboard Jefferies tube on deck eleven, section two. The warhead is still active. 
TUVOK [OC]: Do not attempt to disarm it. Hold your position and wait for my arrival. Is that clear? 
SEVEN: Arrive quickly. 
[Mess hall] 
PARIS: I've stopped the internal bleeding. You're going to be okay. 
TORRES: Is that your expert opinion? 
PARIS: That's a promise. I know it still hurts. 
TORRES: It's all right. 
PARIS: You've got a ruptured vertebra. I'll see if I can repair it. 
EMH: Mister Paris, your assistance please. 
PARIS: Give me a minute. 
EMH: Now, Lieutenant. 
PARIS: I'll be right back. Don't go anywhere. 
EMH: In case you hadn't noticed, B'Elanna is not the only patient here. 
PARIS: She's in pain. 
EMH: But no longer in danger of dying. That is the first rule of medical triage. Make sure the patient will live, then move on to the next one. Emotional detachment is essential otherwise, you risk impairing your judgment. 
PARIS: I understand. 
EMH: You could be seeing more of your friends in here soon. If you can't handle itm I'll find another assistant. You can leave. 
PARIS: Physician, heal thyself. 
EMH: What's that supposed to mean? 
PARIS: It seems to me that you're the one who's getting emotional around here. 
EMH: Several weeks ago, just before the conduits on deck five breached, I saw Ensign Strickler and Crewman Emmanuel at the end of a corridor. They were trying to reach the Jefferies tube. I kept the hatch open, waited for them as long as I could, but time ran out. I had no choice but to seal the hatch. 
PARIS: It must have been very hard for you. 
EMH: My point is, it could have been worse. Had I lost my objectivity, I might have kept the hatch open and everyone would have perished. This man has damaged lung tissue. Treat him with inaprovaline. 
[Jefferies tube] 
TUVOK: If we attempt to dislodge the torpedo or move it with the transporters, it will most likely detonate. 
SEVEN: Can we disarm it? 
TUVOK: No. The warhead is already destabilising. I estimate it will explode in less than two minutes. If we re-route emergency power to this junction and erect a level ten force field it should be enough to contain the explosion. We must hurry. 
SEVEN: If I can determine the exact temporal variance of this torpedo it will help us perfect the temporal shielding. 
TUVOK: There is no time. 
SEVEN: We may never have this opportunity again. 
TUVOK: I am giving you an order. Now! 
SEVEN: The temporal variance is one point four seven microseconds. 
TUVOK: Excellent work, but if you disobey my orders again I will be forced to
(The torpedo explodes. Tuvok shields Seven with his body as the flames rush down the Jefferies tube. Now we know why Kes is being ignored. It is so Seven can take the credit for saving the ship.) 
Day 65 
Captain's log, stardate 51268.4. This morning's attack destroyed the power grid on deck eleven. No casualties this time, but the replicator system was badly damaged. We've gone to emergency rations. As a result, the situation has gotten a little worse. Environmental controls continue to fail. Seven decks have been rendered uninhabitable and we've had to relocate the crew. Quarters are close, nerves are frayed, and I'm not sure what's more difficult to maintain. Voyager's systems or the crew's morale. What's important is that we're together, working toward a single goal. Survival. 
[Bridge] 
(Chakotay holds out a pocket watch. He is growing a moustache and beard.)
CHAKOTAY: Happy birthday. 
JANEWAY: Happy what? 
CHAKOTAY: Today is May twentieth. 
JANEWAY: Is it? I thought we were still in April. Guess I've lost track of the time. 
CHAKOTAY: Well, this should help. 
JANEWAY: It's beautiful. 
CHAKOTAY: Nineteenth century, mechanical movement. It's a replica of the chronometer worn by Captain Cray of the British Navy, His ship was hit by a typhoon in the Pacific. Everyone back in England thought they were killed, but eight months later Cray sailed his ship into London harbour. There wasn't much left of it, a few planks, half a sail, but he got his crew home. 
JANEWAY: I appreciate the sentiment, but I can't keep this. Recycle it. We can't afford to waste energy on nonessentials. 
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, I replicated this months ago. I've been saving it. I wanted you to have it. 
JANEWAY: That watch represents a meal, a hypospray, or a pair of boots. It could mean the difference between life and death one day. 
[Tuvok's quarters] 
(Tuvok dips his Vulcan cut-throat razor into the water and starts to shave himself. He nicks his jawline. The mirror above the bowl is shattered. He feels for the towel. The doorbell chimes.)
TUVOK: Enter. 
SEVEN: Reporting for duty, Lieutenant. 
TUVOK: What is our agenda? 
SEVEN: After we make your customary rounds, I'd like to take you to deflector control. I had an inspiration last night about the temporal shielding. 
TUVOK: Excellent. 
SEVEN: You've been damaged. 
TUVOK: A minor laceration. 
SEVEN: I have offered to assist you with your personal grooming. 
TUVOK: There are some tasks I would rather perform myself. 
SEVEN: Unacceptable. You're risking further injury. 
TUVOK: Shaving is hardly a life-threatening activity. Tell me about your inspiration. 
SEVEN: We've been trying to match our shields to the temporal variance of their torpedoes, but I believe we must also match the deflector array to the inverse of that variance. 
(Tuvok goes into his main room and sits. Seven brings his boots for him to put on.)
TUVOK: Fascinating. When will the deflectors be ready? 
SEVEN: They're ready now, but the modifications are untested. 
TUVOK: Then our rounds can wait. Take me to deflector control. 
[Corridor] 
(Tuvok holds Seven's arm as she leads the blind Vulcan along the corridor.)
BROOKS: Seven. 
SEVEN: Ensign. 
TUVOK: A friend of yours? 
SEVEN: My cabin mate. As a Borg, I was accustomed to cohabitating with thousands of other drones, but I find it significantly more difficult to live with a single human. 
TUVOK: In what way? 
SEVEN: Ensign Brooks is negligent. She leaves her equipment lying around the quarters and her clothing on the floor. 
TUVOK: Indeed. I have found that most humans are less than meticulous when it comes to their domestic habits. 
SEVEN: Indeed. 
NEELIX: Mister Vulcan, sir. A tactical question if I may? 
(Neelix is in Starfleet uniform.)
TUVOK: You may. 
NEELIX: We're just about done rebuilding the internal security sensors, and we're ready to programme the audio signal. Do you want it to say intruder alert, or should we try something a little more dramatic, like Warning, intruder alert or, Intruders among us! Danger! Danger! Intruders among us? 
TUVOK: Intruder alert will suffice. 
NEELIX: Yeah, go with the classic. Understood, sir.
(Neelix walks on.) 
TUVOK: And you believe you have difficulties. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: All hands to battle stations. Krenim vessels approaching. Repeat, all hands to battle stations. 
TUVOK: Go to deflector control and bring the new shields online. We will test them in battle. 
[Bridge] 
(The bridge is now messier than a teenager's bedroom, with huge chunks of superstructure hanging down. Tuvok feels his way to his station.)
TUVOK: Computer, activate tactile interface. 
CHAKOTAY: Weapons status? 
TUVOK: Phasers are still online. Torpedo launchers are still inoperative. 
PARIS: The Krenim are within visual range. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
TUVOK: Seven's modified temporal shields should be online in a moment. 
KIM: It's a warship. 
JANEWAY: You know the routine. 
PARIS: Evasive manoeuvres. 
KIM: They're matching course. 
CHAKOTAY: Hold them off as long as you can. Bridge to Seven of Nine. 
[Deflector control] 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Where are those shields? 
SEVEN: Stand by. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: They're charging weapons. 
JANEWAY: Seven, we could a little of that Borg efficiency right about now. 
PARIS: I can't shake them. 
KIM: They're targeting the bridge. 
[Deflector control] 
SEVEN: Temporal shielding is online. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: They're firing. 
CHAKOTAY: Full port thrusters.
(One torpedo misses, the other hits.) 
TUVOK: Temporal shields are holding. No damage. 
JANEWAY: Hail them. 
TUVOK: Channel open. 
JANEWAY: Krenim vessels, this is the captain of Voyager. You may have noticed we have a defence against your torpedoes now. I suggest you stand down. 
TUVOK: No response. 
JANEWAY: Their mistake. Bring the ship about. We're going through their space whether they like it or not. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge] 
OBRIST: We are within range of the Garenor homeworld. 
ANNORAX: Set temporal coordinates. Full power to the weapon. Prepare for total erasure of the species. 
OBRIST: Targeting the focal point. Ready. 
ANNORAX: Fire. 
(The ray spreads around the planet then off into space.)
OBRIST: Temporal incursion in progress. 
ANNORAX: Trace elements? 
OBRIST: Diminishing. 
ANNORAX: Counter indications? 
OBRIST: None so far. Organisms and structures are being eradicated. 
ANNORAX: Track the temporal wavefront as it passes through the system. I want to monitor every change in the timeline as it occurs. 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
[Bridge] 
TUVOK: Captain, the Krenim warship is in pursuit, but their weapons are not powered. 
JANEWAY: They don't know what to do with us now that we're shielded against their torpedoes. 
KIM: Captain, there's some kind of spatial distortion heading toward us. Sensor readings are erratic. I can't identify the phenomenon. 
CHAKOTAY: What's the source? 
KIM: Unknown. But it originated approximately twenty light years from our position. It looks like a shockwave in the fabric of space-time. 
JANEWAY: Tom, get us out of here. 
PARIS: We'll never outrun it, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Maybe our new shields will help. All hands, brace for impact. 
TUVOK: You were correct, Captain. The temporal shielding has protected us. The wave front has passed. 
KIM: Captain. 
(The Krenim warship shrinks before their eyes.)
CHAKOTAY: Report. 
KIM: It's definitely a Krenim ship. Identical hull markings, same biospectral frequency, but it's half the size. Limited fire power. 
JANEWAY: What happened to the warship? 
PARIS: I'm not picking it up on long range sensors. 
CHAKOTAY: It looks like this entire part of space has changed somehow. The last time I checked, this region was filled with Krenim colonies and vessels. I just ran a scan and sensors show no colonies and just a handful of Krenim ships. 
JANEWAY: Harry, transfer all your sensor data about that shockwave to the Astrometrics lab. 
KIM: Yes, ma'am. 
JANEWAY: Tell Seven of Nine to meet me there. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, Astrometrics took heavy damage a few days go. It's offline. 
JANEWAY: Well, let's get it back online. It appears that the Krenim Imperium has vanished. Our troubles could be over and I'd like to find out why. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge] 
OBRIST: Something went wrong. The entire Krenim Imperium, it's reverted to a pre-warp state. 
ANNORAX: Not possible. Our calculations were perfect. 
OBRIST: I may have an explanation. There's an anomalous temporal reading twenty light years from here. It's coming from a vessel. 
ANNORAX: What vessel? 
OBRIST: Component zero four nine beta. A ship called Voyager. 
ANNORAX: That ship was classified as an inert component. It shouldn't be generating a temporal field. 
OBRIST: But it is. And it was enough to throw off our calculations. 
ANNORAX: Take me to them. 
Day 70 
[Astrometrics lab] 
SEVEN: Sensors are online. Power levels are stable. 
JANEWAY: Is the astrometric database still intact? 
SEVEN: Yes. 
JANEWAY: Display the scans we made of this region before the temporal shockwave hit. 
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five. 
(With four coloured areas, one much larger than the others.)
JANEWAY: The Krenim Imperium. Over two hundred star systems, nine hundred planets, thousands of warp capable vessels. And now, after the shockwave, everything seems to have changed. Run a new scan. 
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five. 
(The big area shrinks.)
JANEWAY: Same space, different configuration, exactly as Chakotay said. The Imperium appears to have been reduced to a few planets, and a smattering of vessels. It appears that someone or something has altered history. But why weren't we affected? 
SEVEN: Perhaps we were protected from the changes by our temporal shielding. 
JANEWAY: So the question remains. What caused that shockwave in the first place? See if you can track it back to its origin. 
SEVEN: The shockwave emanated from a planet twenty light years away. The Garenor homeworld. 
JANEWAY: The Garenor? We passed their planet three weeks ago. 
SEVEN: The planet is no longer populated. 
JANEWAY: What? 
SEVEN: Astrometric data indicate that the instant the shockwave appeared the Garenor species vanished. 
JANEWAY: Erased from history. 
SEVEN: Captain? 
JANEWAY: I'm no authority on time travel, in fact I've made it my goal in life to avoid it, but this sounds to me like a causality paradox. Think about it. A temporal shock wave eliminates a single species and all of history changes as a result. 
SEVEN: An intriguing theory. Perhaps the Krenim are responsible. They do possess temporal technology. 
JANEWAY: But why would they alter history to undermine themselves? No, we're still missing a big piece of the puzzle. Run another scan of the 
(Rumble! The Time ship dwarfs Voyager as it arrives overhead.) 
[Krenim Timeship- Bridge] 
OBRIST: Scanning the vessel. Their defensive shielding is generating a level nine temporal disruption. 
ANNORAX: Collect samples. Two lifeforms, ten square metres of the hull. 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
ANNORAX: Disable their shielding. Prepare to initiate a temporal incursion. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: That entire vessel's in a state of temporal flux. It's like they exist outside space-time. 
PARIS: They're scanning us. 
(Chakotay and Paris disappear.)
JANEWAY: Get a lock on them. 
KIM: I'm trying, but I can't isolate their signals. 
TUVOK: We're being hailed. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: State your identity. 
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. Who are you, and where are my men? 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: I am Annorax of the Krenim Imperium. We've transferred your crewmen to my vessel for further analysis. Your ship does not come from this quadrant. 
JANEWAY: We come from Earth, a planet sixty five thousand light years from here. We're on our way home. 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: I see. 
JANEWAY: We've been observing some rather unusual events in the region. It seems your Imperium never existed. Perhaps you could shed some light on this? 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: That doesn't concern you. What is important is that you understand that I bear you no hostility. But you have diverted me from my mission. 
JANEWAY: Your mission? You're responsible for the changes in the timeline. 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: You're a long way from your world. In a manner of speaking, so am I. Unfortunately, only one of us can go home again. Your sacrifice will restore the lives of countless millions. I'm sorry. 
(Transmission ends.)
KIM: I'm reading a massive energy build-up. Some kind of weapon. 
JANEWAY: Shields. 
(The time incursion beam is aimed directly at Voyager.)
SEVEN: Temporal shields are weakening. 
KIM: Captain, that energy beam. It's pushing Voyager out of the space-time continuum. 
JANEWAY: He's trying to erase us from history. 
SEVEN: I've scanned their propulsion system. Their vessel's mass prevents them from exceeding warp six. We can escape. 
TUVOK: Captain, I must remind you our structural integrity is still impaired. If we go to warp now, the damage to Voyager will be extreme. 
KIM: What about Tom and Chakotay? 
JANEWAY: We'll have to come back for them. All hands clear the outer sections and prepare for wide-scale breaches. Tuvok, activate the transverse bulkheads. 
SEVEN: Temporal shields are failing. 
JANEWAY: Engage warp seven. 
KIM: They're not in pursuit. 
TUVOK: We're losing the outer hull. Transverse bulkheads are holding.
(Pieces of hull fly off into the camera.) 
Day 73 
[Mess hall] 
(The whole crew is gathered. That is not a lot of people.)
JANEWAY: Each of you has done their best, but determination alone isn't going to hold this ship together. It's time we faced reality. We've lost nine decks. More than half the ship has been destroyed. Life support is nearly gone. Voyager can no longer sustain it's crew. I promised myself that I would never give this order, that I would never break up this family, but asking you to stay would be asking you to die. You will proceed to the escape pods and evacuate this vessel. Set your course for the Alpha Quadrant. Along the way, try to find allies. Secure faster ships, if you can. Anything to get home. The senior staff and I will remain on board as long as possible. We will try somehow to rescue Tom and Chakotay. The escape pods are equipped with subspace beacons. That's how we'll keep track of you. When we find each other again, (she knocks on a table) and we will, we will find each other again, I expect all of you to be in one piece with some interesting stories to tell. Good luck.
(The escape pods are ejected.) 
To Be Continued... 
