The Killing Game - Part 2
[Sainte Claire - Street]
CHAKOTAY: Move out.
[Corridor] 
(Janeway and Seven shoot a pair of German soldiers.)
JANEWAY: Looks like the Hirogen have been busy. This entire section has been equipped with holo-emitters. Let's get to Astrometrics. 
[Astrometrics] 
(A German officer there has to cross the room for his gun. Janeway knocks him out.)
SEVEN: There are eighty five Hirogen on board, concentrated on decks two through nine. 
JANEWAY: What about the bridge? 
SEVEN: Four Hirogen and Ensign Kim. 
JANEWAY: At least he's alive. The neural interfaces. You said they're controlled through Sickbay. 
SEVEN: Yes. There's only one Hirogen in Sickbay with the Doctor, but the corridors outside are heavily guarded. 
JANEWAY: That's our first objective, disable the interfaces. But we'll need help. 
SEVEN: We did have allies in the World War Two simulation. The French Resistance. 
JANEWAY: It's time we mount a resistance of our own. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: The battle was concentrated here, on holodeck one, but the fighting has spilled out onto decks five and six and it looks like a group of holographic Americans is invading deck seven. 
KARR: Show me the breach in the hologrid. 
(The monitor behind Kim goes blank.)
KIM: I've lost the visual link. It was the last active circuit connecting the bridge to the holodecks. There's only one way to stop this. I need to go to Engineering and initiate a power surge across the holo-emitter network. It'll blow out the entire system. 
KARR: No. That would destroy both the holodecks. 
KIM: Look, simulation or not, if this battle keeps going we could all be killed. 
KARR: I want that technology preserved. 
TURANJ: Commander. 
KARR: Status. 
TURANJ: I was able to reach deck five but holographic forces are massing near the breach. If I'm to get into the holodeck, I'll need help. 
KARR: Take the hunters from the Klingon simulation. 
TURANJ: When I find Captain Janeway, should I kill her? 
KARR: No. Bring her to me. 
TURANJ: This is no longer a game. This hunt is real. We should kill the prey. 
KARR: The Voyager crew must remain alive to make repairs, or we could lose everything. This vessel, it's technology. You said that you understood the importance of what we're doing here. 
TURANJ: I'll get the hunters. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
CHAKOTAY: We think it's a secret compound the Nazi's built after they took over the city. What I don't understand is how they managed to camouflage it so well. 
TUVOK: Indeed. We've been scrutinising German troop movements since the Occupation. We knew nothing of this installation.
PARIS: Don't sweat it. Our recon planes missed it too. Any idea what they're hiding in there, Captain? 
CHAKOTAY: We saw all sorts of scientific equipment. Strange metals, instruments we can't identify. I've relayed the findings to Military Intelligence. They believe this could be an advanced munitions laboratory, designed to build some kind of super-weapon. 
PARIS: We've got to put it out of business. 
CHAKOTAY: I've already sent three squads in, but the Nazi's are putting up one hell of a fight. I've requested additional troops. Lieutenant, this restaurant will serve as our command post. Set up the transmitter and post guards around the perimeter. 
PARIS: Yes, sir. 
CHAKOTAY: You've done a bang-up job, but we'll take it from here. Tell your people to lie low, and that the Americans said thanks. 
TORRES: This is our city. We have no intention of lying low. 
CHAKOTAY: Listen, honey, the time for sneaking messages back and forth is over. This is war, and you aren't soldiers. 
TUVOK: He's right. We have weapons hidden throughout the city. Brigitte will tell you where they are. 
CHAKOTAY: Sounds good. Lieutenant, take care of it. 
(Chakotay and Tuvok leave them alone.)
PARIS: I can see you haven't changed. 
TORRES: Bring me one of those street maps. Most of the guns, we stole from the German army, the explosives we bought on the black market. 
PARIS: We could use both. 
TORRES: Our biggest stockpile is buried here, two metres below the last row of seats of the Cinéma Mystére. You remember it, don't you?
PARIS: Hmm. I'm No Angel, with Mae West. There's heavy fighting in that area. What's the best way in? 
TORRES: We dug a tunnel that leads directly to the stockpile. Here, I'll show you. Incidentally, we saw Death Takes a Holiday. 
PARIS: It was the Mae West movie, I'm sure of it. She was singing Sister Honky Tonk, and I put my arm around you. And during the courtroom scene, I kissed you. 
TORRES: You know, I think you're right. 
PARIS: I guess the experience wasn't exactly burned into your memory. 
TORRES: Not the movie, but I do remember the kiss. 
PARIS: So, did you get my last letter? 
TORRES: You mean the one asking me to leave France? 
PARIS: Germany was about to invade. I thought you'd be safer back in the States with me. But, I guess you found someone else to take care of you. 
TORRES: There's never been anybody else. 
PARIS: Then who? 
TORRES: He's second in command of the Sainte Claire occupation. The first time he saw me, he said I was pretty. I took advantage of his interest. He doesn't know I'm in the Resistance. The child is his. 
PARIS: I'm sorry. 
TORRES: So am I. 
(There is a noise from behind the bar. Everyone points a gun at it. A Jefferies tube hatch opens and Janeway looks out.)
JANEWAY: Hold your fire. 
TUVOK: Katrine. You survived. 
JANEWAY: Are you surprised? 
TUVOK: Very. Nazi headquarters was destroyed. We assumed you were killed in the explosion. 
TORRES: What is that? Some kind of an escape tunnel? 
SEVEN: That's precisely what it is. 
CHAKOTAY: You're the leader of the local Resistance. 
JANEWAY: That's right. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain Miller, Fifth Armoured Infantry. This is Lieutenant Davis. I take it you've seen the German bunker we uncovered? 
JANEWAY: I just came from there. 
CHAKOTAY: We suspect it's a munitions lab. Can you confirm that? 
JANEWAY: Yes, a munitions lab. 
CHAKOTAY: Then this is it. We're calling in an air strike. Contact the RAF. 
JANEWAY: Hold on, Captain. There's an easier way to do this with the minimum of casualties. 
CHAKOTAY: Let's hear it. 
JANEWAY: I've located the generator that powers the entire complex. It's heavily guarded, but with your help I can get close enough to set off some explosives. 
CHAKOTAY: My orders are to blow the entire compound before the Germans send in reinforcements. 
JANEWAY: I saw technology in there you can't begin to imagine. Warheads powerful enough to destroy this entire valley if they're accidentally detonated. Call for an air strike, it may be the last call you make. 
CHAKOTAY: How can you get close enough? 
JANEWAY: This tunnel. I've been watching this compound for several months, and I've got a man inside. 
PARIS: The place is crawling with Krauts. 
JANEWAY: Yhat's why I need your help. If your men can clear these two corridors it'll give us access to this entryway. Get me there, and I can take care of the rest. 
CHAKOTAY: C Company, what's there status? 
PARIS: They're holding position about two hundred yards from here. 
CHAKOTAY: Get them on the horn. You'll lead us into the compound, but I'm coming with you. 
JANEWAY: I work better alone. 
CHAKOTAY: This isn't a request, it's an order. 
JANEWAY: Order? Do I look like I'm wearing one of your uniforms? I go alone. 
CHAKOTAY: I thought you needed our help. I'll be right behind you. 
(The men leave Janeway and Seven alone. Janeway packs a rucksack.)
JANEWAY: Even if I manage to disrupt the neural interfaces, we've still got a war to fight. We're going to need something a lot more effective than these old firearms. 
SEVEN: I believe I can enhance these weapons using Borg technology, but I'll have to access Cargo Bay two. 
JANEWAY: If something goes wrong and I don't succeed, you'll be the only one left who knows what's really going on. 
SEVEN: Understood. 
(Janeway walks away from the bar and is confronted by Tuvok.)
TUVOK: Have our suspicions been confirmed? 
JANEWAY: Suspicions? 
TUVOK: Is she a collaborator? 
JANEWAY: I think we can trust her. 
TUVOK: Are you certain? Three hours ago you were prepared to put a bullet in her head. 
JANEWAY: She's on our side. 
TUVOK: In your absence, I may be forced to make that determination for myself. 
JANEWAY: I've already made it. You're not to harm her. Is that understood? 
(Gunfire shatters a window.)
TUVOK: German forces are advancing on our position. 
CHAKOTAY: Let's give them a warm welcome. Mademoiselle, after you.
(Janeway and Chakotay enter the Jefferies tube.) 
[Sickbay] 
(A crewman is lying on a biobed.)
EMH: Punctured lung, arterial rupture, fracture of the thirteenth vertebra. He needs surgery. 
(An Hirogen Nazi is brought in.)
MEDIC: First and second degree burns to the face and neck. Treat him. 
EMH: His injuries are minor. He can wait. 
MEDIC: I said treat him. 
EMH: This man has massive internal injuries. If I don't operate now, he'll die. 
MEDIC: Treat the burns, or I'll deactivate your programme. 
EMH: What kind of physician are you? The first rule of triage states that the critical injuries take priority. 
MEDIC: You're rules, not mine. 
(He deactivates the EMH.)
MEDIC: From now on, leave the wounded prey where they fall. Tend only to our own. 
[Holodeck two - Klingon programme] 
(A trio of Klingons are getting drunk.)
NEELIX: I'm as dry as the crater at Tarpahk. In the middle of the dry season. When it's dry! 
KLINGON: No! I'm not done! 
NEELIX: Share with your brothers. It's the eve of battle. I may be drunk, but I can still send your soul to the next world and leave your body here to rot. Though from the stench of it, I'd say it's begun to already. 
(The Klingon passes out.) 
[Corridor] 
(Machinegun fire nearby. A holographic Nazi aims his weapon at Kim, and gets shot by -)
KIM: Tom! 
PARIS: Wrong guy. You speak English? 
KIM: Yeah. I speak English. 
PARIS: American? 
KIM: I didn't see him coming. You saved my life.
PARIS: Why are you out of uniform? What Company are you with? 
KIM: Well, er, I'm a civilian. 
PARIS: In the middle of a battle zone in France? The hell you are. 
(More gunfire. The GI with Paris moves forward.)
PARIS: Go one, I'm right behind you. Look, I don't have time for twenty questions. You say you're an American? All right then. If Betty Grable came around that corner, what part of her would you be staring at? Sorry. Time's up. 
KIM: Her legs! I'd be staring at her legs. 
PARIS: Bull's-eye. Lucky for you.
(Paris moves on.) 
[Jefferies tube] 
CHAKOTAY: You're a gung-ho kind of gal, aren't ya? 
JANEWAY: Does that bother you? 
CHAKOTAY: Nope. Just not used to it, that's all. The girls back home are a little different. 
JANEWAY: I guess when it comes to my people's safety, this girl tends to get a little gung-ho. 
CHAKOTAY: Nothing to apologise for. I'm the same way with my men. There's not a day goes by when I don't think to myself, I'm going to get 'em back safely, even if I die trying. 
JANEWAY: I know the feeling. We're about to enter some caves that run under the town. 
CHAKOTAY: Caves? 
JANEWAY: We're going to meet our contact there. I should warn you. There are eccentric people who live in the caves, but don't be alarmed. 
[Holodeck two - Klingon programme] 
(A drinking song is being mangled.)
JANEWAY: Good evening, gentlemen. 
NEELIX: Who are you? How did you get past our battle lines? 
JANEWAY: We're friends, allies. 
NEELIX: Sent by what house? 
JANEWAY: The house of K'toh-maag. 
NEELIX: K'toh-maag. I never heard of it. 
JANEWAY: I'm not surprised. It's a long way from here. 
NEELIX: This battle doesn't concern you. 
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But we'd be honoured to fight alongside such great warriors. If you prefer, we'll take our weapons elsewhere. 
NEELIX: Wait! I'll consider your request. But first, prove your fortitude. Drink! SanRoh t'patoh Cha! 
(The skin of bloodwine is thrown to Chakotay.)
CHAKOTAY: I guess my French is a little rusty. 
JANEWAY: Don't drink it. It's twice as strong as whisky. I'll be right back. 
(Janeway takes the rucksack and leaves them to find a computer interface.) 
NEELIX [OC]: Prove your fortitude, warrior. Drink!
EMH: Captain. Is, is it you? 
JANEWAY: Yes. We've got to disable the rest of those interfaces. 
EMH: The controls are routed through the surgical console in Sickbay, but it will take time to disable all of them. 
JANEWAY: We don't have time. I'll access the Jefferies tube that runs under that deck plate, set a few charges and blow out the console. 
EMH: Charges? The Hirogen have seized the armoury. 
JANEWAY: No problem. I've got all the ammo I need right here. 
EMH: Holographic explosives? 
JANEWAY: With the safety protocols offline, they're as good as the real thing. 
(They return to the Klingons.)
NEELIX: Another of your warriors? 
JANEWAY: Yes. 
NEELIX: He's a frail looking thing. 
JANEWAY: I'll contact you when I've disabled the rest of the interfaces. In the meantime, stay here. 
EMH: With the Klingons? 
JANEWAY: Believe me, it's peaceful compared to Sainte Claire. Captain. 
NEELIX: Ha! 
(Klingon Neelix slaps the EMH on the back.)
EMH: Please, don't do that. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
PARIS: They've got us outnumbered. 
TORRES: And outgunned. They're setting up a machine gun emplacement across the street. 
TUVOK: Where have you been? 
(Seven crawls out of the Jefferies tube.)
SEVEN: Obtaining supplies. 
TUVOK: What is this? 
SEVEN: German technology taken from their compound. I can use them to enhance our weapons. 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
TURANJ: I've cornered several Voyager crewmen. They've taken refuge in a guarded building. I need three nucleonic charges to penetrate the structure. 
[Bridge] 
KARR: Nucleonic charges could damage the holodeck further. Use your hand weapons. 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
TURANJ: Then I'll need more hunters. 
KARR [OC]: They're on the way. 
[Jefferies tube] 
JANEWAY: Damn, there's a level nine forcefield around the surgical console. We'll have to go in and shut it down. 
CHAKOTAY: Forcefield? 
JANEWAY: I'll explain later. Set the detonator for five minutes. 
[Doctor's office] 
MEDIC: Five hunters have been killed in the last hour. You must engage the safety protocols. 
KARR [on monitor]: Those protocols aren't functioning. 
MEDIC: Then I'll need assistance to 
(He hears a hatch opening.) 
MEDIC: Stand by. 
[Sickbay]
MEDIC: You. 
JANEWAY: Get him out of here. 
CHAKOTAY: There are ten pounds of dynamite under the floor set to blow in less than three minutes. Move.
(Chakotay escorts the Medic out at gunpoint. Janeway uses the desk computer in the office to access Auxilliary Systems 0470. Sickbay Security Field Authorized Access Only.) 
[Bridge] 
KARR: Bridge to Sickbay. Sickbay, respond. Bridge to deck five. Converge on the Sickbay.
(Janeway disables the Sickbay Security Field. Chakotay shoots at a pair of Hirogen who come around the corner outside, and the Medic overpowers him. He enters Sickbay and shoots Janeway in the leg. She runs out through the Medical lab and he goes to his computer. Access denied. KaBOOM! The Sickbay doors are blown out.) 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
(Paris and Torres grab the back of their necks in pain. Tuvok likewise.)
SEVEN: We are on the holodeck under attack. You must 
(The Kapitan enters with Hirogens. The Resistance and their allies are taken prisoner.)
TURANJ: Bridge, this is holodeck one. I have seized the building, and I have found another access to this holodeck. 
[Ready room] 
KARR: Seal it. How many captives? 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
TURANJ: Four. Their neural interfaces have been disabled. I will make the kill. 
KARR [OC]: No. 
[Ready room] 
KARR: They are not prey, they are hostages. I'll need them. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
TURANJ: As you wish. You, help me seal this hatch. 
PARIS: What do you think? A boy or a girl? 
SEVEN: It's a holographic projection. 
TORRES: Unfortunately, it's a very good projection. I feel twenty kilos heavier. It even kicks. 
TUVOK: I don't recognise this programme. 
PARIS: I do. He's wearing a Nazi uniform. We're on Earth during the Second World War. 
SEVEN: Nazi? 
PARIS: Totalitarian fanatics bent on world conquest. The Borg of their day. No offence. 
SEVEN: None taken. 
TORRES: What are you staring at? 
KAPITAN: Get up. You deceived me. 
TORRES: Really? 
KAPITAN: I should've seen through your flirtations. 
TORRES: If you say so. 
KAPITAN: The thought of you carrying my child disgusts me. 
TORRES: You're not the only one. 
(The Kapitan slaps Torres. Paris rises to protect her.)
PARIS: Look, I don't know what went on between the two of you, but it's obviously over now. 
KAPITAN: I see you're acquainted. Do you find her as attractive as I once did? I'll miss our nights together. 
PARIS: Pig! 
(The Kapitan aims his gun at Paris.)
TURANJ: Put the weapon away. Now. 
(He obeys and walks away.)
PARIS: Funny, he doesn't seem like your type. 
[Holodeck two - Klingon programme] 
NEELIX: Doctor, trouble. 
EMH: Now what? 
NEELIX: The Klingons are starting to wake up from their nap. 
EMH: All right, all right, hold on. 
NEELIX: What are you doing? 
EMH: I've established an interface with holodeck one. I want to monitor what's going on over there in case the crew needs my help. 
KLINGON: Qapla'! 
NEELIX: Uh-oh. What should we do? 
EMH: Not having a cure for Klingon hangovers, I couldn't tell you. 
KLINGON: The battle has begun. Our plan is to penetrate the enemy's position, cut his forces in half. 
NEELIX: And a very good plan it is. Best of luck with it. 
KLINGON: You will lead us into battle, Great Warrior.
(He throws a bat'leth to Neelix.)
NEELIX: Maybe I'll just watch from here. Try to offer up some pointers as things develop. 
KLINGON: Sto'Kar! Lead the attack or die here by my hand. 
EMH: You heard him. Don't argue with the man, run along! I'll reattach any severed limbs. Just don't misplace them. 
KLINGON: You! Cover our flank! 
(He gives the EMH a d'k tahg dagger.)
KLINGON: Qapla'! 
NEELIX: Qapla'. 
EMH: Tally-ho. 
[Ready room] 
KARR: Enter. Leave her. 
JANEWAY: I see you've done some redecorating. 
KARR: Your attempt to retake this vessel was inventive. From the day I seized Voyager, you put up a dauntless fight. But your fight is over now. You're going to help me shut down these simulations and repair the holodecks. 
JANEWAY: No. We'll destroy this ship before we surrender it. 
KARR: Don't threaten me, Captain. I've faced far more intimidating prey than you. If this fight continues, I promise you I will hunt down and kill every member of your crew. 
JANEWAY: Well, by then this ship will be damaged beyond repair and there won't be much of a trophy left, will there? 
KARR: Perhaps I should kill you and find someone who will cooperate. 
JANEWAY: Good luck. You'll get the same response from all of them. 
KARR: You don't realise what's at stake. 
JANEWAY: I know what's at stake. Your sick little game. 
KARR: This is not a game! 
JANEWAY: Then what is it? 
KARR: I'm trying to create a future for my people. 
JANEWAY: Future? 
KARR: I don't expect you to understand. You are prey. 
JANEWAY: You underestimate us. 
KARR: Yes, perhaps I do. 
JANEWAY: I'm listening 
KARR: My people are hunting themselves into extinction. Your holodeck technology might offer us an alternative, a new way of life. Instead of scattering ourselves across the quadrant in pursuit of prey, we could simulate the hunt and give ourselves a chance to rebuild our civilisation. 
JANEWAY: And confine your killing to holograms? 
KARR: With the safety protocols offline, the pursuit is just as challenging. 
JANEWAY: Oh, I understand what you're trying to do, but then why have you been torturing us? Why have you thrown my crew into one brutal simulation after another? 
KARR: I've been studying your behaviour, as I do with all my prey. But your holodecks allowed me to go further, to explore your culture, your history. I must admit, I've learned a great deal. 
JANEWAY: How so? 
KARR: Your people have faced extinction many times, but you've always managed to avoid it. You seem to recognise the need for change. 
JANEWAY: Yes. You've got one of those moments running right now on the holodeck. We called it World War Two. 
KARR: One of your most difficult eras. And yet you survived. 
JANEWAY: It wasn't easy. 
KARR: You are a resilient species. I admire your cunning. 
JANEWAY: Let's end this. I'll call a ceasefire and we can try to contain the damage. I want my ship back, but in return I will give you what you need to create the holodeck technology. It would be cunning for you to agree. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
(Turanj pours himself a glass of wine.)
TURANJ: Synthetic, and undrinkable. I am tired of this simulation. 
KAPITAN: Mein Herr, a word with you. 
TURANJ: And these holograms are becoming annoying as well. 
KAPITAN: What are we waiting for? Why don't we execute these prisoners? 
TURANJ: Orders from the Kommandant. 
KAPITAN: If I may speak freely. The Kommandant has been acting strangely the past few days. He's been questioning German superiority. Perhaps we shouldn't follow his orders so blindly. 
TURANJ: You will do as he says, as long as I tell you to. 
KAPITAN: I don't know how much longer I can stand being trapped in here. 
TURANJ: Perhaps you would enjoy some entertainment. Sing. 
SEVEN: I will not. 
TURANJ: Sing or you will die. 
SEVEN: Then I'll die. 
TUVOK: Seven, you are a valued member of this crew. The logical response would be to grant his request. 
SEVEN: Logic is irrelevant. One day the Borg will assimilate your species despite your arrogance. When that moment arrives, remember me. 
KARR [OC]: Bridge to holodeck one. 
TURANJ: Yes. 
[Bridge] 
KARR: I've come to an agreement with Captain Janeway. Call a ceasefire. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
TURANJ: What? 
TUVOK: Captain? 
JANEWAY [OC]: It's true, Tuvok. 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY: Our first order of business is to call off the troops. I want you to find Chakotay 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
JANEWAY [OC]: And have him convince his soldiers to pull out of the city. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 
KARR [OC]: Turanj 
[Bridge] 
KARR: Order our hunters to end the fighting. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
KAPITAN: This is madness. We're winning this battle. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
KARR [OC]: Our civilisation depends on this agreement. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
TURANJ: Acknowledged. You heard him, release the captives. I'll tell the others. Order all units to withdraw to these positions 
KAPITAN: I have always thought highly of you. 
TURANJ: Have you? 
KAPITAN: Yes. But the Kommandant is a fool. He doesn't understand. He's never embraced the Fuhrer or his vision. One does not cooperate with decadent forms of life. One hunts them down and eliminates them. The Kommandant speaks of civilisation. The ancient Romans were civilised. The Jews are civilised. But in all its moral decay, Rome fell to the spears of our ancestors, as the Jews are falling now. Look at our destiny. (the flag behind the bar) The field of red, the purity of German blood. The blazing white circle of the sun that sanctified that blood. No one can deny us, no power on Earth or beyond. Not the Christian Saviour, not the God of the Jews. We are driven by the very force that gives life to the universe itself. We must countermand the Kommandant's orders, stay and fight. We must be faithful to who we are. 
TURANJ: You two, follow me. 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
(Chakotay uses the field radio.)
CHAKOTAY: All units, clear the valley. Return to your previous positions. We're calling a ceasefire. Repeat, cease fire. Well, the word is out. 
TUVOK: Whether it will be acted upon is another question. 
CHAKOTAY: Oh, they'll follow orders. I'm their commanding officer, remember? 
PARIS: Keep it moving! Keep it moving! Get the lead out of your pants! 
SEVEN: Mid-twentieth century American slang. 
PARIS: You got a problem with that, sister? 
SEVEN: You're enjoying this simulation. I find that peculiar, given the circumstances. 
PARIS: Loosen up, baby doll, the war's almost over. 
(Gunfire.)
TORRES: So much for the ceasefire. 
KAPITAN: Fire! Fire! 
[Holodeck two - Klingon programme] 
EMH: I've been monitoring the other simulation, and the fighting's getting worse. The crew is taking heavy casualties. 
NEELIX: How can we help? 
EMH: I'll transfer my programme to holodeck one. You take the Jefferies tube and meet me there. 
NEELIX: There's only the two of us. 
EMH: Nevertheless we have to try and. Even half drunk, Klingons are among the best warriors in the galaxy. 
NEELIX: But they're already in the middle of a war with the house of whatever it is. 
EMH: Then you'll just have to convince them that there's a more important battle to be waged. 
NEELIX: Me? 
EMH: You are their Great Warrior. Lead them. 
NEELIX: Pardon me, gentlemen. I wonder if I might have a word with you. 
EMH: They're Klingons, not kittens.
(Neelix snatches the leg of meat from one Klingon's hand and throws it in the campfire..) 
NEELIX: You will listen! 
[Holodeck lab] 
JANEWAY: These sensors indicate you've placed holo-emitters on decks five through twelve? No wonder the system breached. You've turned Voyager into one big holodeck. 
KARR: Can you shut it down? 
JANEWAY: Yes, but I'm going to have to initiate an overload. We'll worry about making repairs later. Right now we've got to put an end to those simulations. Janeway to Ensign Kim. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: Yes, Captain. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Harry, I'm going to need your help overloading the holo-emitter network. 
[Holodeck lab] 
JANEWAY: I'm transferring optical processor control to you now. Start charging the secondary power relays. 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY [OC]: We'll use them to trigger the overload. 
KIM: I'm on it. 
[Holodeck lab] 
JANEWAY: It's going to take some time. There are over eight hundred emitters that we have to 
(Turanj enters, armed with a rifle.)
TURANJ: Move away from the controls. 
KARR: Why haven't you ordered the ceasefire? 
(Turanj shoots his Alpha in the shoulder.)
TURANJ: Move away from the controls. 
KARR: Listen to me. 
TURANJ: No! 
(And shoots Karr again. He dies.)
JANEWAY: What are you waiting for? 
TURANJ: I am a hunter. You are my prey. Run.
(Janeway runs into the corridor. Turanj follows.) 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Out. Our holographic allies are losing ground. The German troops are surrounding the city. 
PARIS: I don't know how much longer we can hold them off. These weapons are pretty crude. They're not much help. 
TORRES: Maybe we should fall back? 
CHAKOTAY: Where to? They're coming in from all sides. Tuvok, any chance we can get through that breach in the hologrid. 
TUVOK: Unlikely. Twenty more Hirogen have taken up position near the opening. We are outnumbered. 
CHAKOTAY: How's it going? 
SEVEN: I'm modifying this explosive device to emit a photonic burst. It will be harmless to organic tissue but it should disrupt all holographic activity within twenty metres. 
CHAKOTAY: We'll try to buy you some time.
(Janeway gets into the Jefferies tube network before Turanj catches up with her. He doubles back, feels the hatch, then opens it.) 
[Bridge] 
HIROGEN: I'll be in Sickbay. 
(Kim is left unsupervised. He does his bit on Auxilliary Systems 0470. Charging Holo-Emitters. Holo-Emitter Overload Initiated. The countdown starts at 9 minutes.) 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
NAZI: Schnell! Schell!
CHAKOTAY: They're closing in. Seven! 
(Seven pulls the pin on her modified grenade, stands to throw it and gets shot. A GI tries to get to it, then it goes off and he disappears, along with the weapons. The Nazi's weren't close enough.)
KAPITAN: Surrender. 
(Janeway limps to a place where a holographic soldier no longer has any legs. She drags him back and they reappear, and she carries on. Meanwhile, Seven is helped to her feet. Real life thunder rumbles overhead.)
KAPITAN: Verdamt. Bring that one to me. I will spare your life for now, but only because you are carrying a German child. 
[Corridor] 
(Turanj hears a noise and turns down a side corridor. Janeway is in the shadows, behind fallen debris. Turanj stands near the fallen soldier.)
JANEWAY: Please don't do this. I can be of use to you. I can help you repair the ship. Don't kill me.
(Turanj steps forward. His rifle starts to disappear, he looks down and she hits him with a metal pipe. Then she picks up the rifle and he runs away.) 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
(A firing squad is formed.)
KAPITAN: Against the wall. Your deaths will serve the glory of the Reich. Prepare to fire. 
(A swarm of Klingons burst through the barricade. The Nazi soldiers go to meet them. Turanj looks down on the melee.)
NEELIX: Fight on, warriors! This way! 
EMH: Qapla', gentlemen. Qapla'! 
(Neelix and the EMH stay under a cafe awning as the rain pours. The Kapitan knocks down Paris, then a Klingon kills him.) 
[Corridor] 
JANEWAY: This hunt is over. Tell your hunters to stand down. I'll use this if you force me to.
(Turanj steps forward. Janeway shoots him and he falls backwards into the holodeck, down three decks. Seven seconds to holo-emitter overload.) 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
(All the holographics characters vanish.)
CHAKOTAY: It's over. Let's go. 
Captain's log, stardate 51715.2. The damage to Voyager has been extreme. Both sides have taken heavy casualties, and it's clear that no one is going to win this conflict. The fighting has reached a standstill and the remaining Hirogen have agreed to negotiate a truce. 
[Cargo Bay two] 
YOUNG HIROGEN: What is this? 
JANEWAY: An optronic datacore. You can use it to create holodeck technology on your own vessels. I made a promise with your leader before he died, that I would give this knowledge to the Hirogen. Take it. 
YOUNG HIROGEN: His ideas were unconventional. I do not share them. 
JANEWAY: Was he any more unconventional than you are? Calling a ceasefire with your prey? Only a few days ago, the thought of speaking with us on equal terms would've been inconceivable, but here we are. Accept this trophy. You can use it to create a new future for your people. At the very least, you can hang it on your bulkhead.
(She hands it to him, and he bows his head briefly. Janeway returns the gesture and the Hirogen leave Voyager to sail on alone.) 
