The Killing Game - Part 1
[Holodeck two - Klingon battle simulation] 
(Janeway, as a Klingon warrior, is fighting other warriors.)
JANEWAY: P'tahk! Prepare to meet your ancestors! 
(But the other warriors keep pushing her back until one manages to thrust the point of his bat'leth into her chest, knocking her down on her back.)
JANEWAY: This battle is yours today, but the House of Mo'kai will never yield. 
(She grabs a mace from a fallen Klingon and resumes the fight. She is interrupted by an Hirogen in Klingon armour.)
KARR: Doh-cha scree! Move away, coward. I want to make this kill. 
JANEWAY: You should have killed me when my back was turned. 
KARR: I want to see the fear in your eyes. 
JANEWAY: Look closely and you'll see your own destruction. 
KARR: You are resilient prey. 
JANEWAY: I'm no one's prey. 
(She raises the mace and he stabs her in the stomach.) 
KARR: You are mine, now and after death. Sickbay, this is Holodeck two. Janeway requires medical assistance. 
[Sickbay] 
(Voyager is surrounded by Hirogen vessels. Janeway now looks human on the biobed. An Hirogen is working in Sickbay.)
MEDIC: She'll survive. 
KARR: What about her neural interface? 
(The medic scans a Y shaped scar below Janeway's jawline.)
MEDIC: Stable. 
KARR: Are you sure? There were times when she seemed aware of who she is. 
MEDIC: Impossible. I was monitoring the crew during the entire simulation. She believes she's whoever we programme her to be. Shall I return her to the Klingon simulation? 
KARR: No. Bring her to Holodeck one. I've found another programme I want to try. A conflict that took place on her own planet. It should prove stimulating. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
(A French café during World War 2. Mademoiselle de Neuf is singing It Can't Be Wrong to piano accompaniment.)
SEVEN: Wrong, would it be wrong to kiss? Seeing I feel like this, would it be wrong to try? Wrong, would it be wrong to stay, here in your arms this way, under this starry sky? If it is wrong (Tuvok is the bartender in a white jacket, and the owner wears a white three piece man's suit a la Marlene Dietrich as she greets her Nazi and French customers. She moves amongst the tables.)
JANEWAY: Welcome to Le Coeur de Lion. I'm Katrine. The first round is with my compliments, on one condition. You leave the war outside. More escargot for table nine. Jacques, no lady tonight? Oh, we'll have to see what we can do about that. 
(She sits at a table.)
JANEWAY: Forgive my neglecting you. Now, where were we? Ah, yes, my latest adventure in Paris. 
(She looks over to the bar and sees Tuvok nod towards the entrance. Two Hirogen Nazi officers are entering.)
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I'll have to neglect you again. Excuse me. 
(She goes to the bar.)
TUVOK: That's him. 
JANEWAY: Our new Kommandant? 
TUVOK: British intelligence believes he's been sent here to oversee the occupation of the city. 
JANEWAY: What's his history? 
TUVOK: He served with Rommel in North Africa and Schmidt in Poland. He is a formidable military strategist, notorious for his cruelty. 
JANEWAY: Ah. Let's make him feel at home. Send him a bottle of Chateau LaTour. My compliments. 
TUVOK: The '29? 
JANEWAY: I hate to waste good wine. Give him the '36. 
TUVOK: As you wish. 
SEVEN: And I have waited so long. It must be right. It can't be wrong. 
(The song finishes, and she gets a round of applause.)
SEVEN: Merci. Be generous to Claude this evening. Without him, my voice is empty. Good evening. 
TURANJ: Sing. 
SEVEN: Tonight's performance is over. Return tomorrow. 
TURANJ: Now. 
SEVEN: Remove your hand. 
TURANJ: Obey me, or I will hunt you down and your bones will adorn the bulkhead of my ship. 
KARR: Sit down and play the game. In this setting, we have no ships. We are an ancient race of soldiers intent upon conquering this world. Play the game. 
JANEWAY: Now, now, what's this? Mademoiselle LeNeuf will be happy to sing another song. Just give her a few minutes to freshen up. 
SEVEN: It's late. 
JANEWAY: Freshen up. 
SEVEN: Very well. 
JANEWAY: Kommandant Karr. 
KARR: You know me. 
JANEWAY: Your reputation precedes you. I'm Katrine. Le Coeur de Lion is my establishment. The first round is with my compliments, on one condition. You leave the war outside. 
KARR: I wish to speak with her. Alone. 
(The nearby French patrons and the SS officer leave them.)
JANEWAY: Charming gentleman. 
KARR: He is disoriented. Your world is unfamiliar to him. 
JANEWAY: He'll be comfortable soon enough. The arms of France are open to all. 
KARR: I've heard otherwise. 
(They sit at a table.)
JANEWAY: What do you mean? 
KARR: I understand there is opposition to our presence here among your citizens. 
JANEWAY: The Resistance? In Paris perhaps. But this is a small city, defenceless. We've learned to be a little more diplomatic. When this war is over we want to remain on good terms with the victor. 
KARR: Whoever that may be. 
JANEWAY: Whoever that may be. 
(A waiter brings the wine and glasses.)
KARR: Your city may be defenceless, but it's crucial to the war. Any ground assault into Germany must pass through this province. The Resistance will come here. 
JANEWAY: If they do, I'll tell them what I tell everyone. Leave the war outside. 
(The Hirogen Alpha tries the wine.)
KARR: Excellent. 
(An Hirogen SS officer comes to the table.)
TURANJ: Kommandant, I've been informed there's a problem in the Engineering section. The warp plasma network has become unstable. 
JANEWAY: What's he talking about? 
KARR: It need not concern you. To the hunt. 
JANEWAY: The hunt? 
KARR: For the Resistance. I shall take great pleasure in tracking them down and making the kill. 
(He kisses her hand and leaves.)
JANEWAY: Au revoir. 
(Later, Seven is counting the takings.)
JANEWAY: How'd we do? 
SEVEN: Insufficient for a Saturday night. Twelve hundred forty seven francs and eighty one Reichmarks. 
JANEWAY: Well, it should be enough to buy an oscillator to extend the range of our radio. First thing tomorrow morning I want you to take a little trip to the countryside. There's a Monsieur Groleau who has a cottage just past the third bridge. He's got a wine cellar full of vacuum tubes. Tell him we need a high frequency oscillator. Offer him three hundred francs but don't go any higher than five hundred. 
SEVEN: We have more pressing needs. 
JANEWAY: Such as? 
SEVEN: Explosives. We need a launcher that can fire armour piercing grenades. 
JANEWAY: Planning on blowing up a German tank? 
SEVEN: If necessary. 
JANEWAY: We're not trying to build an army here. 
SEVEN: Then maybe it's time we did. Three more German battalions have occupied the city and a Panzer division is holding position eleven kilometres away. When the Americans arrive and the fighting begins, I don't intend to be standing next to a piano singing Moonlight Becomes You. 
JANEWAY: The Americans won't even be able to approach this city without our help. And if they can't liberate Sainte Claire the assault into Germany could fail. We need to be gathering information about German troop movements and relaying it to Allied Command. 
SEVEN: I'm tired of lighting the Nazi's cigarettes and laughing at their jokes. We should be helping the Allies by assassinating these pigs. 
JANEWAY: The moment we start shooting we expose ourselves. Right now, no one suspects us. And I am not about to risk our entire operation because you've suddenly developed a nervous trigger finger. 
SEVEN: That is your opinion, Madame. 
JANEWAY: I'm the leader of the movement here and right now my opinion is the only one that counts, so get the oscillator. I think we're all feeling the strain. It's been a hard four years. But believe me, the Third Reich is feeling it too. We just have to hang on a little while longer. Word from the Americans is going to come any day. 
SEVEN: Perhaps. 
(Seven leaves.)
TUVOK: Again? 
JANEWAY: Again. Why is she so adamant? What she's proposing would put us all at risk. 
TUVOK: Maybe that's her intention. 
JANEWAY: If you have suspicions, my old friend, let's hear them. 
TUVOK: From the beginning, she's been argumentative, and on more than a few occasions she's disobeyed your direct orders. 
JANEWAY: She's headstrong. Typical of the underground. 
TUVOK: Nevertheless, her behaviour has threatened our identities. 
JANEWAY: She's the only munitions expert we have, and she can carry a tune. We need her. Let's keep our eye on her. Have her followed for the next few days. If she is a Nazi infiltrator, we'll have to eliminate her. 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
(Neelix cycles down the road with baguettes and bottles of wine in his panniers.)
NEELIX: Bonjour, madame. 
WOMAN [OC]: Bonjour.
(Neelix snatches an apple as he passes a stall.)
NEELIX: Put it on my account. Guten Tag. 
TURANJ: You! Halt! 
(Neelix obeys.)
TURANJ: Get off your vehicle. What are you transporting? 
NEELIX: Nothing but the very essentials of life. 
(The Hirogen grabs a baguette and breaks it in two. Then he opens a bottle and pours the contents out.)
TURANJ: Proceed to your destination. 
NEELIX: That I will. That I most certainly will. 
TURANJ: If the choice were mine, you would already be dead. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
RADIO: More report rain. It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with low fog across the Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from a low of forty five degrees to 
(Torres is writing all this down when static breaks it up.)
TORRES: Damn, I'm missing it. 
(Meanwhile, Tuvok turns around a painting of a naked lady to look at a map fastened to the back.)
TUVOK: Our most recent intelligence shows two German divisions here and here. 
JANEWAY: How recent is this intelligence? 
TUVOK: Forty eight hours. 
JANEWAY: Old news. 
RADIO: I'm Reginald Smith and you're listening to the British Radio Network. This report will repeat in 
TORRES: Forty five seconds. 
RADIO: Forty five seconds. 
TORRES: Here's to English precision. 
(Someone knocks on the door. Janeway picks up a handgun.)
JANEWAY: We're closed. 
NEELIX [OC]: Morning delivery. 
(She lets him in.)
JANEWAY: You're late. What happened? 
NEELIX: Oh, just a tête-à-tête with a member of the Master Race.
JANEWAY: That's the second time this week. Sounds like they're increasing their patrols. 
TUVOK: Perhaps it's time we chose another courier. Our baker is arousing suspicion. 
NEELIX: There's no need to worry. I change my route every day, and I've become quite friendly with most of the Gestapo. They just love my strudel. (Neelix carefully peels the label from the now empty bottle of Quart de Chaume.)
RADIO: A kind thank you to Jazzy McNulty and his Band. Now, the weather for today, September the twenty second, nineteen forty four. In London skies are grey, with a strong chance of afternoon rain. Temperatures will range from a low of fifty two degrees to a high of seventy one. The northern coast reports heavy rain and strong winds, ocean swells reaching four feet. Devonshire, Hertfordshire and Summershire all report rain. It's currently fifty nine degrees in Dover with low fog across the Channel. Temperatures are expected to range from a low of forty five degrees to a high of sixty three. I am Reginald Smith and you are listening 
(Torres turns off the radio.)
TORRES: Got it. Let's see the code key. 
JANEWAY: Every fifth letter, every third vowel. Use the Sunday decryption sequence. A, H, C. Straight from Allied High Command. 
NEELIX: It must be important. 
TUVOK: All messages regarding the war are important. It's only a matter of degree. 
NEELIX: I suppose you're right, but do you have to be so logical about everything? 
TUVOK: In any covert battle, logic is a potent weapon. You might try it sometime. 
JANEWAY: American Fourth Infantry to invade Sainte Claire Tuesday dawn. 
NEELIX: That's two days from now. 
JANEWAY: Require assistance. Disable enemy communications. End message. 
TUVOK: The German radio transmitter is housed at their headquarters. 
NEELIX: That building is surrounded by guards. We can't just waltz in there and plant a bomb. 
TORRES: Maybe I can help. 
JANEWAY: How? 
TORRES: I'm upset. I need to see my special friend. Even if it means bothering him at the office. 
TUVOK: A reconnaissance mission. 
TORRES: I'll try to locate the radio, see where the guards are posted, examine the locks. Gather enough information to get us inside. 
JANEWAY: It's too dangerous. If you're caught, you'll be tortured for information. 
TORRES: You don't know my friend. He would never do anything to harm his own child. 
(For the only time this season, the show acknowledges Roxanne's real-life pregnancy.)
JANEWAY: Encode a response to Allied Command. Confirm that we've received their message. Tell them we're proceeding according to plan. 
[Outside German HQ] 
(A woman spits at the ground when she sees Torres. Torres goes closer to the building, then grabs at her belly and stumbles. The guard comes over to help her, and they speak in German.)
GUARD: Was es ist, Fräulein?
TORRES: Ich muß mit ihrem Hauptmann sprechen.
GUARD: Kommen hier.
(He helps her go inside.) 
[Kapitan's office] 
(The Kapitan is a human, and an SS officer.)
KAPITAN: Ever since my days at the university I've admired this painting, and now it's mine. Our fellow officers might prefer gold or land, but for me the greatest prize of war is art. 
KARR: Trophies of the hunt. But was the hunt fair? 
KAPITAN: Sir? 
KARR: We entered this city with superior firepower against a weakened prey. Do you really deserve these prizes? 
KAPITAN: We are German. The German people deserve Europe and everything in it. 
KARR: Why? 
NAZI: Sir, you question our destiny? 
KARR: Of course not. But I want to hear it in your own words. Tell me, why are we the Master Race? 
KAPITAN: Our blood is pure. Our people lived and hunted on this land for a thousand years before the degenerate races brought their corruption. Europe must be purified. 
KARR: You yourself, are you stronger than these degenerate races? More cunning? 
KAPITAN: Yes, of course. 
KARR: And if you were alone without an army supporting you, would you continue the hunt? If your prey were armed instead of defenceless, what then? 
KAPITAN: I, Colonel, I, I don't know what you're trying 
(The Hirogen grabs his throat.)
KARR: You are superior to no one! Never underestimate your prey or disrespect its abilities. If you do, you will become the hunted. When the opposing army invades this city, remember my words. 
(The Kapitan nods. There is a knock on the door.)
KARR: Enter. 
(Torres is shown in. A copy of Da Vinci's lost Leda and the Swan is one of the paintings on the wall.)
KAPITAN: Brigitte. 
TORRES: I'm sorry, I know I'm not supposed to come here. Don't blame him. I told him that I was ill and I had to see you. 
KARR: I will leave you two alone. 
KAPITAN: Heil Hitler! 
(The Alpha leaves without returning the salute.)
KAPITAN: It's all right, the Colonel is in a strange mood today. 
(He hugs Torres.)
KAPITAN: What's wrong? Is it our child? 
TORRES: I don't know. I was dizzy. 
KAPITAN: I'll call the doctor. 
TORRES: No. I feel better now. Maybe I just needed to see you. Why haven't you shown me this place before? 
KAPITAN: I didn't want your neighbours to see you coming here. They make it difficult enough, knowing we're together. 
TORRES: I don't care what they think. It's beautiful. 
(She is referring to a small sculpture on a side table.)
KAPITAN: Praxiteles, master sculptor of ancient Greece. There are only three like this in all of Europe. 
TORRES: So many wonderful things.
(Including a soldier with headphones on sitting at a radio set.) 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
(Two Hirogen are walking together. )
TURANJ: The Kommandant would have us continue this simulation until we rot. It's pointless. We should begin the hunt. He believes we must learn more about our prey, but I have learned enough. Ready your weapon. Avoid the cranium. 
(Neelix is wheeling his bicycle along the street. They shoot at him. People scatter, but Seven shoots back.)
SEVEN: This way. 
NEELIX: But the message. 
SEVEN: There's no time! 
(They run around the corner and down an alleyway. The door they find is locked, but they are out of side when a motorbike and sidecar drive past. Neelix steps out of hiding, then Seven. The Hirogen Captain shoots her gun out of her hand, then both of them in the back as they try to run away.)
TURANJ: Computer, exit holodeck. We'll take them to the medical bay. 
[Sickbay] 
(The EMH is assisting the medic to treat Seven. Neelix is on another biobed.)
MEDIC: This neural interface has been damaged. 
EMH: That's because it took a direct hit when one of your bullets grazed the base of her skull. 
MEDIC: I'll provide you with another. Install it. 
EMH: Not until I've repaired her injuries. 
MEDIC: How long? 
EMH: She has two fractured vertebrae and a punctured lung. Another hour at least. 
MEDIC: Him? 
EMH: I've stabilised his vital systems, but he still has bullet fragments lodged in his shoulder. 
MEDIC: I will treat him. 
EMH: This time you might do a better job repairing the muscle lacerations. The last crewmember you treated was brought back in with internal bleeding. 
MEDIC: Your crew is fragile. They fall too easily. 
EMH: What do you expect? They've been stabbed, shot, beaten, phasered and bat'lethed over the past three weeks. Their bodies weren't designed for this kind of punishment. 
(The Hirogen Alpha enters.)
KARR: What happened? 
MEDIC: These prey were hunted by Turanj. Their injuries are severe. 
EMH: You assured me that your people would avoid causing serious head injuries. Another centimetre and the bullet would have penetrated her brain. If you can't keep your people under control, then you should put an end to this blood sport. 
KARR: The simulations will continue. 
EMH: At least activate the holodeck safety protocols. 
KARR: No. 
EMH: It'll prevent life-threatening injuries for your people as well. 
KARR: It will also eliminate the challenge. 
EMH: I have had twenty eight wounded and one fatality in the past twelve hours. Even I can't keep up with that level of triage. 
KARR: You will keep up or they will die. Their lives are in your hands, Doctor. Don't fail them. When that one is ready, place him in holodeck two. Let's see how he fares with the Klingons. 
MEDIC: What about her? 
KARR: Send her back to holodeck one. I like her voice. 
[Bridge] 
KARR: Progress? 
KIM: By cutting through the bulkheads on decks four, five and six we've been able to expand both holodeck grids by five thousand square metres. 
KARR: More. 
KIM: I can't give you any more. Not without compromising Voyager's primary systems. 
KARR: Then compromise them. 
KIM: Look, holodecks require a tremendous amount of energy. I've already rerouted power from all nonessential systems. Anything more, and we'll start losing propulsion, deflectors, even life support. 
KARR: I'll transfer a supply of power nodules from my vessel. Integrate them into your systems. I want to expand the holo-projectors into all surrounding sections. Replicate enough emitters for the task. 
(The Alpha walks away.)
KIM: Yes, sir. 
[Corridor] 
(Kim is working with a black crewman. An Hirogen stands guard nearby.)
KIM: The holo-emitters in this corridor are stable. Let's start working on section nineteen. (sotto) But first, tell the guard to escort you to Engineering. That we need more equipment. Specifically, a type three isolinear emitter. If he gives you any trouble, say I can't complete the assignment without it. 
(The crewman goes to their guard.)
ASHMORE: We need an isolinear emitter from Engineering. 
(The guard escorts Ashmore, and they both get into the turbolift. Kim summons the EMH.)
EMH: Ensign, how did I get here? 
KIM: I transferred you here, using the new emitters in this section. 
EMH: I assume you've got a plan? 
KIM: Half a plan. 
EMH: Let's hear it. 
KIM: Before we can retake the ship, we've got to get the crew back. That means disabling the neural interfaces. 
EMH: Easier said than done. The great Hunters are everywhere you turn. 
KIM: Don't worry, I think I've found a way to tap into the Sickbay diagnostic console. The only catch is 
(The guard and Ashmore return.) 
KIM: Standby with the emitter. I'm almost done here. 
(Kim goes around the corner and the EMH reappears.)
EMH: The catch, Ensign? 
KIM: Somebody's got to be inside the holodeck to engage the bridge control relays. 
EMH: We're short-handed. 
KIM: I know. 
EMH: Well, we've got a Borg on board, don't we? Maybe we can put her to good use. 
[Ready room] 
(Redecorated in the Hirogen style. The Hirogen SS officer enters.)
KARR: I've been studying Voyager's database looking for our next simulation. There are many to choose from. These people have a violent history. I believe I've found a worthy prey. The Borg. When World War Two is over, we will recreate a notorious battle known as Wolf 359. 
TURANJ: I look forward to it. 
KARR: I thought you might. But if you continue to disobey me, this is one hunt you will never see. You nearly destroyed two of my favourite prey. You were careless. 
TURANJ: I've become impatient. We penetrated this vessel, overcame their defences, and in the moment of the kill, you forced us to stop. Now we play these incessant games. It's time we took our trophies and moved on. 
KARR: Your lust for the kill has blinded you, like many young hunters. If you took the time to study your prey, to understand its behaviour, you might learn something. 
TURANJ: There is nothing to be learned. 
KARR: You're wrong. Each prey exposes us to another way of life and makes us re-evaluate our own. Have you considered our future? What would become of us when we have hunted this territory to exhaustion? 
TURANJ: We will travel to another part of space, search for new prey, as we have always done. 
KARR: A way of life that hasn't changed for a thousand years. 
TURANJ: Why should it? 
KARR: Species that don't change, die. We've lost our way. We've allowed our predatory instincts to dominate us. We disperse ourselves throughout the quadrant, sending ships in all directions. We've become a solitary race, isolated. We've spread ourselves too thin. We're no longer a culture. We have no identity. In another thousand years, no one will remember the name Hirogen. Our people must come back together, combine forces, rebuild our civilisation. 
TURANJ: What of the hunt? 
KARR: The Hunt will always continue, but in a new way. I intend to transform this ship into a vast simulation, populated with a varied and endless supply of prey. In time, this technology can be duplicated for other Hirogen. These holodecks will allow us to hold onto our past, while we face the future. 
TURANJ: Even if I were persuaded, others wouldn't be. 
KARR: Then you are with me? I must continue my research. I'll see you tomorrow on holodeck one. The Americans are due to invade. 
[Sickbay] 
(The EMH wakes Seven and whispers in her ear.)
EMH: Remain calm and stay quiet. There's a Hirogen working in the bio-lab. He might hear us. What's the last thing you remember? 
SEVEN: An attack. Hirogen vessels. They breached our hull and boarded the ship. I was in a phaser fight on deck three. I was struck several times. That's all I remember. 
EMH: Then you have no memory of the simulations in the holodeck? 
SEVEN: None. 
EMH: The neural interface must be circumventing your memory centres. 
SEVEN: Neural interface? 
EMH: It's a subdermal transmitter that links your neocortex to the holodeck. In essence, it makes you believe you're a character within the programme. 
SEVEN: Why am I in Sickbay? 
EMH: You were wounded in a simulation. It's my job to patch you all up and send you back in. Half the crew is under lock and key. The rest are fighting for their lives on the holodeck. This has been going on for nineteen days. Dozens of battle scenarios, one more brutal than the last. You should see what a mess you were after the Crusades. 
SEVEN: Will I be sent into another simulation? 
EMH: Yes, but this time with an advantage. I have found a way to disable the interface by remodulating one of your Borg implants to emit a jamming signal. Once the Hirogen have brought you back to the holodeck, the jamming signal will activate within seconds. 
SEVEN: My objective? 
EMH: You mind a control panel inside the holodeck and engage the bridge access relays. That will enable Ensign Kim and me to deactivate all the neural interfaces. After Captain Janeway and the crew regain awareness, you can work with them to mount a resistance against the Hirogen. 
SEVEN: What simulation will I be entering? 
EMH: World War Two. A twentieth century Earth conflict. Do you know anything about it? 
SEVEN: Nothing. 
EMH: That could be a problem. Once the interface is disabled, you won't remember anything about your role in the simulation. Think of it as a new social setting. Do your best to fit in. 
MEDIC: This is the last neural interface. When you've finished with her, you'll help me replicate more. 
EMH: I have to sedate you now. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
SEVEN: (singing) That old black magic has me in it's spell. That old black magic that you weave so well. Those icy fingers up and down my spine. The same old witchcraft when your eyes meet 
(There is a fizzing sound and she stops, confused.)
SEVEN: I must discontinue this activity. I am not well. 
KARR: If the entertainment is over, I'll be going. 
JANEWAY: Stay right there, Kommandant. I'm sure she's fine. Let me talk to her. 
(Janeway goes to Seven at the bar.)
JANEWAY: What's wrong? 
SEVEN: I require a glass of water. 
JANEWAY: Make it a quick one. I promised the Kommandant you'd be singing till midnight. I want to get a lot of information out of him tonight. 
SEVEN: I am ill. 
JANEWAY: Look, I don't care if you're dying. Get back out there. 
SEVEN: I won't. 
(Seven walks away.) 
JANEWAY: Maybe you're right about her. 
TUVOK: The evidence is increasing. She was present today when our courier was shot down in the street, yet somehow, she was unharmed. And now, on the eve of our liberation, she becomes uncooperative. 
JANEWAY: Leave this to me. 
[US Army - Captain's Tent] 
(Under a picture of President Roosevelt, a Native American with a nice tattoo over his left eye studies and marks maps.)
PARIS: Captain? 
CHAKOTAY: At ease. What's the word? 
PARIS: There is no word. At least not from the Resistance in Sainte Claire. 
CHAKOTAY: Then we won't get any support from inside the city. 
PARIS: You may be underestimating the good citizens of Sainte Claire. I spent a summer there when I was eighteen. 
CHAKOTAY: Let me guess. You ate a few snails, fell in love with a local girl and became an expert on the city? 
PARIS: Ah, well, yeah, pretty much like that. 
CHAKOTAY: I see. 
PARIS: But believe me, Captain, those people love their town. They'll fight for it and die for it. Don't count them out yet. 
CHAKOTAY: All right, but I won't count them in, either. We continue as planned. An assault from the north at first light. So, who was the mademoiselle? 
PARIS: Her name was Brigitte. Great gams. One hell of a temper. 
CHAKOTAY: Sounds like your kind of girl. 
PARIS: August 29, 1936, 12:17 p.m. That's when my train pulled out of Sainte Claire. That's the last time I saw her. We wrote to each other every week for three years. Then the war broke out and I never heard from her again. 
CHAKOTAY: Sainte Claire's not a big place. She shouldn't be too hard to find. 
PARIS: I'm counting on it. 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
JANEWAY: You'll maintain position here, twenty metres from the front doors. Arm yourself with a submachine gun and watch for any sign of trouble. 
TUVOK: Understood. 
JANEWAY: Now, we've observed a twenty second break in the guard rotation at four fifteen a.m. That should you and me enough time to enter the building through the storm window on the eastern wall. 
TORRES: When I was there yesterday I saw guards posted at all three stairways. You'll have to reach the second floor through the elevator shaft. The command post is in the main gallery at the end of the hall. 
JANEWAY: Once inside, we plant the charges, blow the transmitter. You'll remain here. If something goes wrong and we're caught, destroy all evidence of the Underground. Our contact list, decryption codes, everything. 
TORRES: Right. 
JANEWAY: We leave in one hour. 
(Seven looks at a grenade. Janeway picks up a bar of plastic explosive.)
JANEWAY: This won't make much of a bang. You forgot to connect the detonator. 
SEVEN: I will correct the error. 
JANEWAY: It's lucky I found your little error. It might have undermined our mission. Are you having second thoughts about tonight? 
SEVEN: No. 
JANEWAY: Good, because I don't want any more mistakes. 
SEVEN: There won't be any. 
JANEWAY: Let's hope not. 
[Mess hall] 
EMH: We've got to stop meeting like this. 
KIM: I managed to grab a quick scan of holodeck one, and it looks like Seven of Nine is on the move. Are you ready in Sickbay? 
EMH: My Hirogen taskmaster is working in the bio-lab. I'll have access to the medical console for another twenty minutes at least. 
KIM: That'll give me enough time to get to the bridge. 
(The EMH vanishes and two Hirogen enter.)
KIM: Good afternoon. 
YOUNG HIROGEN: What are you doing in here? 
KIM: Trying to get the replicator system back online. Unless you prefer the emergency rations? Personally, I'm getting tired of synthetic protein. You're supposed to be the finest hunters in the quadrant, why don't you find us something a little more tasty? Is something wrong? 
YOUNG HIROGEN: An unauthorised transmission was sent from this room. 
KIM: What kind of transmission? 
YOUNG HIROGEN: I don't know. Maybe you can tell me. 
KIM: Well, I was trying to re-route power from the main computer to the replicators. Of course. I must have tripped a communications subroutine. Sorry about that. Didn't mean to worry you. Your people have damaged just about every system on this vessel. Accidents are bound to happen. Now, if you don't mind, I'm due on the bridge. 
YOUNG HIROGEN: Show it to me. 
KIM: What? 
YOUNG HIROGEN: I want to see this subroutine. Show me what you were doing when the accident occurred. 
KIM: Forget it. I don't have time. 
(The Hirogen knocks Kim down.)
YOUNG HIROGEN: Do as I say. 
KIM: All right! But you'd better call the bridge. Tell your superior I'm going to be late, that I'm working under your orders now, not his. Go ahead, make the call. I don't want to take the blame for this. 
YOUNG HIROGEN: Report to the bridge. 
KIM: Thanks. 
[Kapitan's office] 
(The radio operator is writing down a Morse code transmission. Janeway knocks him out.)
JANEWAY: Set the charges here, here and there. This looks like a message from one of their reconnaissance teams. 
(Janeway takes the headphones and listens. Seven removes books from a shelf to reveal the holodeck controls.)
JANEWAY: These must be instructions for troop deployments. The Germans must be taking up new positions outside the city. It looks like they're mobilising more troops than our sources originally expected. 
(The computer beeps up on the bridge. A monitor at the back of Ops says Holodeck One Access Enabled. Kim works consoles, and one in Sickbay proclaims Neural Interface Access Enabled. The EMH presses buttons to bring up Janeway's personnel file.) 
JANEWAY: They're moving armoured units into the valley. They must know the Americans are coming. We've got to warn them somehow. What are you doing? You haven't set the charges. What is that? 
SEVEN: I believe it is a transmitter. I'm attempting to disable it. 
JANEWAY: You're sending a message to the Nazis. 
SEVEN: No. 
JANEWAY: Step away, or I'll kill you. 
[Sickbay] 
MEDIC: What are you doing? 
EMH: Er, nothing. Just running a diagnostic. 
MEDIC: You've accessed the neural interface controls. Stop it immediately. 
[Kapitan's office] 
JANEWAY: I told you no more mistakes. You've just made your last one. 
(Janeway starts to squeeze the trigger on her gun. In Sickbay the console says Neural Interface Disabled. Janeway gets a stab of pain below her ear.) 
JANEWAY: Ow! Seven? 
SEVEN: Captain. 
[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation] 
(As a Klingon.)
NEELIX: Listen. A targ, just beyond that ridge. 
KARR: You would hunt down a simple beast even in the midst of our enemies? 
NEELIX: There is no enemy as great as hunger. 
(The Alpha's comms beeps.)
KARR: Why am I being interrupted? 
[Sickbay] 
MEDIC: The holographic Doctor, he's disabled their Captain's interface. 
KARR [OC]: How? 
MEDIC: I don't know, but I can't re-establish the link. 
KARR: Send a team 
[Holodeck two - Klingon simulation] 
KARR: To holodeck one. Remove her from the simulation. 
[Kapitan's office] 
(Outside, Tuvok fires his machine gun at a pair of Hirogen.)
SEVEN: Hirogen hunters. 
JANEWAY: Internal scans show thirteen of them on this holodeck. 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
CHAKOTAY: Need a hand, buddy? Captain Miller, Fifth Armoured Infantry. 
TUVOK: Welcome to Sainte Claire. 
CHAKOTAY: Get me artillery unit Charlie One. Take up positions along this street and start laying down fire. 
[Kapitan's office] 
(A Klaxon wails.)
SEVEN: The Americans have arrived. 
[Bridge] 
KARR: You circumvented our control. How? 
KIM: Go to hell! 
[Le Coeur de Lion] 
(Torres takes a rifle from behind the bar and takes up position by the door. A figure enters.)
TORRES: Bobby. 
PARIS: You owe me a postcard. 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
CHAKOTAY: Distance eight hundred yards. Correct for crosswinds. Fire at will. Take cover, boys. Charlie One isn't known for accuracy. 
[Kapitan's office] 
(Seven watches from the windows as Janeway works the holodeck controls.)
JANEWAY: I can't access the ship's systems Didn't you say this was Nazi headquarters? 
SEVEN: I did. 
JANEWAY: Then it would stand to reason this building is being targeted. Let's get out of here.
(They run out of the front door. A missile makes a direct hit on the building.) 
[Bridge] 
(Voyager rocks.)
KARR: What happened? 
KIM: There was a simulated explosion on holodeck one. Somehow it blew out the hologrid across three decks. 
KARR: Is the programme still running? 
KIM: Yes. 
[Sainte Claire - Street] 
(Where the building was is now a cross-section of several decks, with energy playing around the edges.)
TUVOK: What is it? 
CHAKOTAY: It looks like a bunker. 
(He grabs the field radio.)
CHAKOTAY: All units, listen up. We've just blown the lid off of some kind of secret Nazi compound. Converge on my position. We're going in. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: The breach opened the simulation into the surrounding sections. I'm picking up holographic soldiers moving into deck five. 
KARR: Shut down the holo-emitters until we can regain control. 
KIM: I can't. The programme controls are offline. You wanted a war? Looks like you've got one. 
To Be Continued... 
