Unimatrix Zero - Part 2
[Borg Cube] 
TUVOK: Lieutenant. 
TORRES: I'm all right. 
(Her voice is gravelly.)
TUVOK: You've been given a subvocal processor. 
TORRES: I can live with it. The captain? 
TUVOK: We were separated. I don't know where they took her. We must proceed to the central plexus. 
(Janeway is having a final node inserted into her brain.) 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Time. 
PARIS: Seventeen minutes. We should have heard something by now. 
CHAKOTAY: Doctor? 
(Neural circuitry pattern 247.)
EMH: Their higher brain functions are stable. 
KIM: The Cube's changing course. New heading, one twenty one mark six. 
PARIS: Matching course and speed. 
[Astrometrics lab] 
SEVEN: The damage to their propulsion system is regenerating. They'll be capable of transwarp in less than two hours. 
CHAKOTAY: I want you inside Unimatrix Zero. When the virus is released, your friends there will be the first to know. Problem? 
SEVEN: No. But I wouldn't call them my friends. 
CHAKOTAY: Acquaintances then. If you're having issues with these people I suggest you set them aside. 
SEVEN: Understood. 
[Forest] 
KOROK: Tell your hunters to patrol the north-eastern perimeter. More drones were spotted there. 
HIROGEN: Understood. 
KOROK: Where's that virus you promised? 
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is deploying it now. 
KOROK: Good. The Borg have increased their attacks here. They're identifying us one by one. If you're looking for your mate, he's not here. 
SEVEN: He's not my mate. He must not be regenerating. 
KOROK: That or he's dead. He should have been here hours ago. No one's seen him. If he died in battle, I'm sure it was honourable. Here. help me. 
(They lift a dead tree trunk and add it to a barricade.)
KOROK: It's obvious your heart is in conflict. 
SEVEN: My heart is functioning perfectly. 
KOROK: Some advice from a warrior in the bedchamber as well as the battlefield. At times like these you must treat your heart as the enemy so you won't be distracted in battle. 
(There is a new arrival.)
SEVEN: I'll keep that in mind. Has the virus been deployed? 
ALIEN MAN: I'm not sure. 
SEVEN: Do you remember anything? Your location? What ship you're on? 
ALIEN MAN: No, nothing. 
[Borg Cube] 
TORRES: The central plexus is through here. 
(Two drones walk through a forcefield.) 
TORRES: Those must be the shield emitters that Seven told us about. 
(They step through carefully. A drone is working at a console.)
TORRES: We need to get through that hatch. 
TUVOK: I will attempt to deactivate him. 
(Tuvok reaches to do a neck pinch, and the drone turns around.)
TUVOK: Captain. 
JANEWAY: What's left of her. How are you holding up? 
TORRES: Fine. 
JANEWAY: I can't access the plexus without shutting down the power grid for this section. That's bound to draw attention. Is there another way in? 
TORRES: The primary access port. I think it's isolated from the main power grid. 
JANEWAY: Where is it? 
TORRES: About thirty metres from here. 
(Tuvok is distracted by voices in his head.)
JANEWAY: Let's take a look. Tuvok. Commander. 
TUVOK: I can hear the Collective. 
JANEWAY: The neural suppressant must be wearing off. 
TUVOK: I'll be all right. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: I heard him. The Vulcan. But he's gone. Why? Why can't I hear the others? 
[Forest] 
(A drone spots a male and follows him. It triggers a tripwire than sends a log smashing into its chest. It vanishes. There is another noise and two males run towards it. Seven has been caught in a net trap.) 
AXUM: Leave this one to me. Comfortable? 
SEVEN: Release me. 
AXUM: Easier said than done. I think I designed this trap a little too well. What are you doing out here? 
SEVEN: Looking for you. Korok was concerned. 
AXUM: That doesn't sound like Korok. 
SEVEN: He said you were missing. 
AXUM: As you can see, I've been busy setting traps. 
SEVEN: Not the most sophisticated technology. 
AXUM: Seems to work. Hold on. 
(He cuts the net and she falls into his arms.) 
SEVEN: I should return to the camp. Wait for word on the virus. 
AXUM: I'll go with you. In case you run into any more trouble. 
SEVEN: As you wish. 
AXUM: I'm sure Korok will be glad to see me. 
[Borg cube] 
(Janeway stands guard while Torres works on a panel.)
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok? 
JANEWAY: Commander? 
TUVOK: Stardate 38774. Vulcanis lunar colony. The time and place of my birth. Recalling the details of my life helps me remain focused. Captain, if I succumb to the Collective, I will pose a security risk. You must be prepared to deactivate me. 
JANEWAY: Without the Doctor's help, that could kill you. Stay focused. Stay Tuvok. That's an order. 
TORRES: Captain, I've bypassed the access codes. 
(She pulls down two sets of handles, and a hatch opens.)
TORRES: Welcome to the central plexus. 
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok. Where are you, Tuvok? 
[Ready room] 
PARIS: Busy? 
CHAKOTAY: What's on your mind. 
PARIS: The away team. The plan was to give them two hours. It's been two and a half. 
CHAKOTAY: The Doctor's keeping an eye on them. We'll give it a little more time. Unfortunately, not everything goes according to plan. 
PARIS: You know, it occurs to me that, with you in command and Tuvok off the ship, that makes me acting First Officer. Technically speaking. 
CHAKOTAY: What's your point? 
PARIS: Well, it's my duty to give you an opinion. And in my opinion I think we should pull them out now before it's too late. 
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your diligence. But I've made my decision. We wait. 
PARIS: How long? A day? A week? 
CHAKOTAY: As long as it takes to complete the mission. 
PARIS: This mission isn't worth their lives. 
CHAKOTAY: You've made your point. 
PARIS: Apparently not. 
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant. A First Officer could get in a lot of trouble for talking to his captain that way. 
PARIS: Well, I've learned from the best. 
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your concerns, Tom, but I need your support on this. 
PARIS: Aye, sir. 
[Borg Cube - Central Plexus] 
(A big area with a box in the middle. Torres and Janeway remove one of its panels.)
JANEWAY: Download the virus. 
(Torres injects tubules into the box.)
QUEEN [OC]: Tuvok. 
TUVOK My daughter's name is Asil. She was born in the city of 
[Borg Queen's chamber] 
QUEEN and TUVOK: T'Paal. We share your memories. You are part of us now. 
[Borg Cube - Central Plexus] 
TUVOK: Don't resist. 
[Bridge] 
EMH: There's a problem with Commander Tuvok. His synaptic pathways are destabilising. 
CHAKOTAY: If I decide to move in closer, I assume my First Officer would concur. 
PARIS: You assume correctly. 
[Borg Cube - Central Plexus] 
(Torres disconnects from the box and Janeway replaces the panel.)
JANEWAY: We have to get out of this chamber and contact Voyager. 
(Tuvok blocks their way.)
JANEWAY: You're Commander Tuvok, Tactical Officer of the starship Voyager. I'm your captain. Step aside, that's an order. 
[Borg Queen's chamber] 
QUEEN: She's irrelevant. 
[Borg Cube - Central Plexus] 
TUVOK: Captain, you must deactivate me. 
(But his personal shield knocks her back.) 
TUVOK: My designation is Three of Twelve. 
[Borg Queen's chamber] 
QUEEN: Where are you, Tuvok? The central plexus. 
(More drones arrive there.) 
[Bridge] 
PARIS: Range, forty thousand kilometres. 
CHAKOTAY: Harry? 
KIM: Too much shielding around the central plexus. I can't get a lock. 
CHAKOTAY: Stay on it. Closer. 
[Borg Cube] 
TORRES: This way. 
(Tuvok knocks her down, then catches Janeway) 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
(Voyager is on the screen.)
QUEEN: Back so soon? 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Target their shield generators. Stand by phasers. 
PARIS: Commander? 
(A green Borg torpedo is heading their way.)
CHAKOTAY: Shields to full. Brace for impact. 
KIM: Someone's accessing our tactical controls. Our shields are down. 
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres. 
(The torpedo punches a hole in the hull.)
EMH: Sensors are offline. I've lost the away team. 
KIM: Hull breaches, decks five, six, seven. 
CHAKOTAY: Reverse course. 
PARIS: We can't just leave them. 
CHAKOTAY: The Borg have our access codes. Get us out of here. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: Thank you, Tuvok. I'm losing voices. Five in spatial grid ninety six, twelve in grid one eight two. Hundreds now. Thousands. 
(There are dark spots in the central plexus. The Queen goes to a nearby drone.)
QUEEN: I can't hear you. Why can't I hear you? You've disconnected from the hive mind. Explain. Comply. 
DRONE: No! 
(He tries to attack her, and bounces of her personal forcefield. Two drones take his arms.)
DRONE: I'm not alone. You can't stop us all. 
(Tuvok and a drone put Janeway into an alcove and activate a forcefield around it. A hologram of her is beamed into the Queen's Chamber as her human self in Starfleet uniform.)
QUEEN: I altered the transmission to restore your original appearance. I know now vain humans can be. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: Why am I here? 
QUEEN: You've caused a great deal of suffering. I wanted you to see for yourself. You are the cause of his death, Captain. You disconnected him from the hive mind. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: You didn't have to kill him. 
QUEEN: He was confused, irrational. I had no choice. Many more will die unless you tell me how to counteract the virus. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: Sorry, we didn't think to develop an antidote. 
QUEEN: I'll assimilate Voyager, then. Your Doctor created the pathogen. He can find a cure. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: My First Officer has orders to delete the Doctor's programme if you go anywhere near 
[Borg Cube]
JANEWAY: Voyager. The resistance is already underway. It won't be long before thousands of drones begin to fight back. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber]
QUEEN: They will fail. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: Maybe. Probably. But a lot of damage will be done before they do. 
QUEEN: Yes, a lot of damage. Spatial grid nine four, cube six three zero. Complement sixty four thousand drones. But I can no longer hear three of them. No doubt they've joined your resistance. Are they trying to sabotage the vessel and liberate others? I don't know, because I can no longer hear them. Initiate self-destruct. 
(The Cube goes KaBOOM!)
QUEEN: An effective solution, don't you agree? Spatial grid zero nine one, sphere eight seven eight. Complement eleven thousand drones. Only one is silent. But I have no choice. I must silence all of them. (KaBOOM) I know how this must upset you, Captain. As a Starfleet officer, you value all life. Even drones. How many more are you willing to sacrifice? Thousands? Millions? You can put an end to this. I want you to go on a diplomatic mission. It's one of your primary functions, isn't it? Negotiations? 
HOLO-JANEWAY: Go on. 
QUEEN: Tell them to rejoin the Collective, and I'll stop the destruction. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: They will never agree to that. 
QUEEN: They're individuals now. They have a choice. What are you afraid of, Captain? That they may cooperate? You've been waiting for a chance to damage the Borg. Now you've found one. You're only using them. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: If you really wanted to negotiate, you'd visit Unimatrix Zero. You found a way to send drones. Surely you could go yourself. Or are you afraid that a taste of individuality might make you realise it's something worth fighting for? 
QUEEN: Comply or you will be responsible for many more deaths. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: You'll have to destroy the entire Collective to find them all. 
[Bridge] 
SEVEN: Several drones have reported that they retained their memories of Unimatrix Zero after their regeneration ended. The virus has been deployed. 
CHAKOTAY: Good. We're going to need all the help we can get. The away team's still trapped on that Cube. 
KIM: And as you may have noticed, we're in no shape to mount a rescue. 
PARIS: Can you get back in? Find out if they have anybody else aboard this Cube? 
CHAKOTAY: If they do, tell them to hurry. They're the only allies we've got. 
EMH: I'd like to make a few adjustments to your alcove before you return. 
[Cargo Bay two] 
EMH: When this crisis ends I'll come up with a more permanent solution, so you can spend more time in Unimatrix Zero. You're in a unique position. Not many of us get to lead a double life. 
SEVEN: When this crisis ends I intend to sever my link to Unimatrix Zero. 
EMH: May I ask why? 
SEVEN: I'm having difficulties with one of the people there. 
EMH: Mister Axum? Whenever you mention his name, your pupils dilate by nearly a millimetre, blood flow increases to your facial capillaries. Both are consistent with an emotional response. 
SEVEN: Axum and I apparently had a relationship. 
EMH: Oh. Romantic? There go those pupils again. 
SEVEN: Your diagnosis is accurate. 
EMH: Well, how ironic. All this time we've been trying to develop that aspect of your humanity, and it's been there all along. 
SEVEN: Not any more. 
EMH: My readings say otherwise. You're very particular about who you choose to spend time with, Seven. No doubt that's why you and I have become friends. If you were involved with Axum once, doesn't that suggest he's a worthwhile individual? 
SEVEN: He does possess commendable qualities. 
EMH: Coming from you, that's high praise. There's nothing wrong with feeling ambivalent, Seven. After all, you're in the middle of a civil war. But eventually, you may want to give this romance a second chance. Who knows? You may even get to meet him in person someday. 
(Seven steps into her alcove.)
EMH: I'll say this for your Mister Axum. he's a very lucky man. 
[Settlement] 
AXUM: The Collective has found a new way to attack us. Eleven ships have self-destructed in the last three hours. 
KOROK: We need to coordinate a battle plan. A way to strike at the heart of the Collective. 
AXUM: Our target should be the primary Unicomplex. If we can disrupt the Queen's control of the hive mind, it'll give us a chance to organise, build up a fighting force. 
SEVEN: There is one more objective. The Voyager away team. 
KOROK: They fought like warriors. Their sacrifice will not be forgotten. 
SEVEN: We can still rescue them. 
AXUM: She's right. They risked their lives for us. Now it's our turn. 
KOROK: There's no time. 
AXUM: It's a matter of honour, Korok. I thought you of all people would understand that. 
KOROK: I'll see if any of our people are on a vessel near theirs. 
SEVEN: Thank you. 
AXUM: It's the least we can do. 
SEVEN: What's wrong? 
AXUM: It turns out I'm on a scout ship patrolling the border of fluidic space. On the other side of the galaxy. 
SEVEN: I was hoping we'd be able to meet one day in the real world. 
AXUM: Me too. There are things I can do where I am. I'll try to contact species 8472, see if I can persuade them to join the fight. 
SEVEN: Given their history with the Borg, I'm sure they'll be eager. I guess this rules out Vorothon Gorge. 
AXUM: Gorge? 
SEVEN: It was at the top of our list of things to see in the real world if we were ever freed from the Collective. Don't you remember? 
AXUM: We could add fluidic space to our list. We still have Unimatrix Zero. 
SEVEN: It was sufficient before. 
AXUM: And now? 
(Seven takes his hand, and they kiss.) 
[Forest] 
ALIEN BOY: Where are you? 
BOY [OC]: Over here. 
(The alien boy crawls along on hands and knees until he reaches a pair of legs.)
QUEEN: Don't be frightened. Stand up, let me look at you. Comply 
ALIEN BOY: You're one of the machine people. You're trying to hurt us. 
QUEEN: That's the last thing I want to do. I'm here to help you. All of you. 
ALIEN BOY: They said you want to assim. Assima. 
QUEEN: Assimilate you. Yes. But that's nothing to be afraid of. You like having friends, don't you? Assimilation turns us all into friends. In fact, it brings us so close together we can hear each other's thoughts. 
ALIEN BOY: Is that fun? 
QUEEN: Yes. It's fun. I was just about your age when I was assimilated. I was worried then, too. But when I began to hear the others, hear their thoughts, I wasn't afraid anymore. 
ALIEN BOY: Don't you miss your parents? 
QUEEN: They're here, with me. Part of us. I can hear them right now. Would you like to be with your parents? They miss you. They want to see you. 
ALIEN BOY: Can I talk to them? 
QUEEN: Soon. But first I'd like to see more of this. 
ALIEN BOY: There's a place where you can see the whole forest. 
(The Queen holds out her hand.)
QUEEN: Show me. 
(He takes her hand and leads her to the view over the inlet and settlement.)
ALIEN BOY: It's pretty, isn't it? 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: I took your advice, Captain. I paid a visit to Unimatrix Zero. It's far more primitive than I expected. I don't understand how anyone could prefer a crude environment to Borg perfection. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: Spend a little more time there. You might find out. 
QUEEN: I've seen enough. It's an illusion. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: Even so, the people who go there are real, and they won't give it up without a fight. 
QUEEN: They'll fail. I thought you'd like to see our latest accomplishment. Recognise it? 
HOLO-JANEWAY: No. 
QUEEN: I think you do. It's your nanovirus, with a few modifications. We've reprogrammed it to target your mutated drones. Once it's released, it will erode their autonomic functions. They will die within minutes. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: You have no way to deliver it. Those drones have been separated from the hive mind. They aren't linked to the central plexus anymore. 
QUEEN: No. But there's another way I can reach them. I'm prepared to go back to Unimatrix Zero and release it myself. But I'm willing to reconsider. It all depends on you. 
JANEWAY: Me? 
QUEEN: If they rejoin the Collective, I'll spare their lives. They listen to you. Tell them it's time to come home. You were responsible for many deaths. Now you can save thousands. Decide. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Let's try this again. Ensign? 
KIM: The warp core is online. Navigational array. Shields at twenty percent. 
NEELIX: We've got sensors. Short range only. 
CHAKOTAY: It's a start. Try to get a fix on the away team. 
(And the power goes down again.)
PARIS: Now what? 
KIM: Someone's tapping into our holographic systems. 
CHAKOTAY: Source? 
KIM: It's a Borg signal. 
EMH [OC]: Doctor to the bridge. 
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead. 
EMH [OC]: Someone's here to see you and Seven, Commander. You'd better come down here right away. 
[Sickbay] 
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn? 
HOLO-JANEWAY: The Borg have established this link so I can propose a compromise. 
CHAKOTAY: We're listening. 
[Borg Cube]
JANEWAY: They've developed a nanovirus that can kill every Borg with the mutation. They're prepared to release it inside Unimatrix Zero unless all the drones there return to the Collective 
[Sickbay]
HOLO-JANEWAY: For reassimilation immediately. 
SEVEN: That's not compromise, that's surrender. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: I won't be responsible for any more deaths. At least they'll survive as drones. Tell them Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. That's an order. Have I made myself clear, Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Captain. 
(The hologram flickers out.)
EMH: We did our best. 
CHAKOTAY: It's not over yet, Doctor. Can you disrupt the interlink frequency for Unimatrix Zero? 
EMH: Commander, the Captain gave us a direct order. 
CHAKOTAY: Yes, she did, but not the one you think. Seven? 
SEVEN: I believe I can, but why? 
CHAKOTAY: Didn't you hear? Unimatrix Zero can no longer exist. Chakotay to the bridge. Report. 
[Bridge] 
PARIS: A transwarp conduit just opened off our port bow. 
NEELIX: Lieutenant? 
KIM: They're on an intercept course. 
PARIS: Evasive manoeuvres. Battle stations.
NEELIX: They're hailing us. 
PARIS: Open a channel. 
KOROK [on viewscreen]: Starship Voyager, I am General Korok. This vessel is now under my command. We've come to join you in battle. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: Your crewmates are coming to retrieve you. You were wise to comply. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Seven of Nine. We're almost in range. 
[Astrometrics lab] 
SEVEN: Stand by. I've isolated the frequency. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Get Korok. 
[Korok's Sphere] 
KOROK: Our emitters are fully charged. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: You should be receiving the interlink frequency. 
KOROK: We have it. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Wait for my signal. 
[Settlement] 
AXUM: We have to end our regeneration cycles. We can't be here when it happens. 
LAURA: Will there be anything left? 
AXUM: I know we're being asked to make a sacrifice, but it's the only way. 
[Bridge] 
PARIS: We're in range. 
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields. All weapons online. Voyager to Korok. It's time. 
(The two vessels power their deflectors.) 
[Settlement] 
(The environment begins to break down, like a defective holodeck.) 
AXUM: You must go. 
(Axum is left alone.) 
[Astrometrics lab] 
SEVEN: Bridge, it's working. Unimatrix Zero is shutting down. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. Voyager to Korok. Now. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: What are they doing? 
HOLO-JANEWAY: You wanted to destroy Unimatrix Zero. We're just lending you a hand. 
QUEEN: Get me the virus. 
HOLO-JANEWAY: You're too late. There's no one left to infect. 
QUEEN: This is your compromise? 
HOLO-JANEWAY: I don't compromise with Borg. 
[Korok's Sphere] 
(It approaches Janeway's Cube) 
KOROK: Match their shield modulations and fire. 
(Korok attacks the Cube, then Voyager comes in with torpedoes. Torres goes to a panel to see what is happening outside. Seven runs out of Astrometrics.) 
[Bridge] 
NEELIX: I'm picking up the away team. 
KIM: I'm isolating their bio-signatures. 
CHAKOTAY: Get a lock. 
KIM: I still can't penetrate their inner shields. 
CHAKOTAY: Voyager to Korok. Status? 
[Korok's Sphere] 
KOROK: Patience, Commander. They're trying to remodulate their secondary shield grid. 
[Bridge] 
KOROK [OC]: I'm attempting to compensate. 
(Seven runs into her alcove.) 
[Settlement] 
AXUM: You shouldn't be here. 
SEVEN: Neither should you. 
(They hug.)
SEVEN: I've wasted our time together. 
AXUM: No, you didn't. It gave us a chance to fall in love again. 
SEVEN: We've lost our only way to be together. 
AXUM: No. I'll find you. 
SEVEN: Axum. 
AXUM: I'll find you.
(He disappears, then Seven wakes up. In the Cube, Torres knocks out a drone and works on the shield controls.) 
[Korok's Sphere] 
KOROK: Shields in sub-grid forty two are destabilizing. Target that section. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
(Janeway's hologram disappears.)
QUEEN: Initiate self-destruct. 
(The Cube starts to explode.) 
[Bridge] 
PARIS: Their shields are down. 
CHAKOTAY: Energise. 
(The Cube goes KaBOOM! catching the Sphere and Voyager with its shockwave. The away team are met in the transporter room by a medical team.) 
Chief medical officer's log, stardate 54014.4. It's been forty eight hours since the away team returned to Voyager. Thanks to the neural suppressant, I've been able to extract most of their Borg technology. The Captain and B'Elanna are on the mend, but Tuvok will need a little more time to recover. 
[Sickbay] 
SEVEN: General Korok is finished with his repairs. He's already been contacted by another Borg vessel in the region. It's also under the control of former drones. 
JANEWAY: The Doctor removed my spinal clamps but it'll be a while before I'm playing hoverball again. If I ever imply it's been easy on you these last few years, remind me about today. 
SEVEN: Noted. 
JANEWAY: Well, Unimatrix Zero may be gone but it looks like the resistance is alive and kicking. With any luck, the Collective may never be the same. 
SEVEN: Korok said he would try to maintain contact, keep us informed. 
JANEWAY: Have you heard from your friend? 
SEVEN: No. But I don't expect to. Axum's vessel is in a remote sector of the Beta Quadrant. If I ever imply that he was nothing more than a friend, remind me about today. 
