Unimatrix Zero - Part 1
[Borg Queen's chamber] 
(In amongst all the regenerating drones, one is displaying rapid eye movement. He is removed from his alcove and escorted to the chamber. The Queen's head, shoulder and upper spinal cord descend to be joined to her cybernetic torso, arms and legs.)
QUEEN: Four of Twelve, subjunction of Unimatrix five two five. You have a disease. You're one of many with this sickness. We want to cure you but we need a better way to identify those with the mutation. Our testing method is too slow. It could take centuries to identify everyone. Help me find the interlink frequency that binds all of you together. Then we can put an end to this, quickly, efficiently. Comply. 
(The drone gasps as if being strangled.)
QUEEN: I've disconnected you from the hive mind. You're alone. I know how uncomfortable that can be. Tell me what I want to know. tThen you can rejoin us. 
DRONE: I don't know. 
QUEEN: You must remember something. 
DRONE: I don't remember. 
QUEEN: The frequency. 
DRONE: I don't remember. 
QUEEN: Deactivate him. Wait. Dismantle him. Bring me his cortical array.
(The drone is taken away.) 
[Forest] 
(Seven is strolling along a woodland path. Birds are singing, and she is enjoying the sun on her face. Other people are walking, talking and laughing together.) 
WOMAN: We'll save that for next time. 
(The woman vanishes.) 
AXUM: Annika.
(The man holds out his hand to Seven, and she turns away. Seven wakes in her alcove.) 
[Sickbay] 
EMH: Another milestone. You've had your first dream. 
SEVEN: I felt awake. 
EMH: Dreams can often seem quite real. Tell me more about this forest. 
SEVEN: It was familiar. 
EMH: Perhaps your unconscious mind was drawing on a childhood memory. 
SEVEN: I spoke to someone. He called me by my human name. 
EMH: Did you recognise him? 
SEVEN: He seemed familiar. 
EMH: This could give us a fascinating glimpse into your unconscious mind. Any one of those images might have a symbolic meaning. The mysterious stranger, for example. Is he a father figure or does he represent a repressed desire for male companionship? 
SEVEN: I don't wish to dream again. Please repair my cortical array. 
EMH: This isn't a malfunction, Seven, it's a natural step in your human development. It might seem unsettling now, but you'll get used to it. Before you know it, you'll look forward to climbing into your alcove each night. This'll keep a record of your REM cycles.
(She takes the small device and leaves.) 
[Bridge] 
JANEWAY: You're late, Mister Paris. 
PARIS: Ma'am? 
TUVOK: According to the ship's chronometer, by twenty two seconds. 
PARIS: I'll make it up at the end of my shift. 
CHAKOTAY: See that you do. 
JANEWAY: Take your station. 
(There is a small box on the helmsman's chair. Behind his back, Janeway is grinning broadly.)
CHAKOTAY: Open it, that's an order. Not only late but improperly dressed. That belongs on your collar, Mister Paris. 
JANEWAY: Allow me. As ship's captain, I hereby reinstate you to the rank of Lieutenant, with all the privileges and responsibilities therein. Your performance on this ship over the past year has been exemplary. I expect more of the same. 
PARIS: You won't be disappointed. 
TORRES: Congratulations, Lieutenant. 
KIM: I didn't notice a little box on my chair. 
(Beep!)
PARIS: Hiding a cake in the console? 
CHAKOTAY: Looks like a distress call. 
JANEWAY: Put it through. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm getting a carrier wave but no message. 
JANEWAY: Origin? 
TUVOK: An asteroid approximately two light years from here. 
JANEWAY: Yellow alert. Set a course. 
(Later -)
PARIS: We're in range. 
JANEWAY: Drop to impulse. On screen. Magnify. 
TUVOK: I'm reading artificial structures. It's a colony of some kind. 
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We received your distress call. 
(The metallic domes and other buildings have scorch marks on them.) 
JANEWAY: Lifesigns? 
TUVOK: None. 
KIM: I'm detecting residual weapons signatures. They're Borg. 
JANEWAY: Any vessels? 
TUVOK: One. A Cube at the edge of this system. 
JANEWAY: Resume our previous course, Mister Paris, warp six. Make a note in the ship's record. We responded to a distress call at oh nine hundred hours. Arrived at the colony two hours later. No survivors. We don't know who these people were, but we know the Borg destroyed them. 
(Seven stands in front of her alcove, hesitating. Then she puts the EMH's gizmo on her neck and steps up into her alcove to regenerate.) 
[Forest] 
(Night. Seven runs from a Klingon warrior.)
AXUM: Come with me. 
SEVEN: I'm regenerating. This is only a dream. 
AXUM: You're not dreaming. I brought you here. This is Unimatrix Zero. 
SEVEN: There is no Unimatrix Zero. Who are you? 
AXUM: Five of Twelve, secondary adjunct of Trimatrix nine four two. But when I'm here my name is Axum. 
SEVEN: Axum. 
AXUM: Sound familiar? 
SEVEN: Yes. 
AXUM: Good. It's starting to come back to you. 
ALIEN CHILD: Is anyone here? 
AXUM: Hello. 
ALIEN CHILD: I think I'm lost. 
(The child looks very like the humanoids from Muse, but they didn't have space technology.)
AXUM: I'm Axum. This is Annika. 
ALIEN CHILD: My father's ship started shaking. Men came aboard. They looked like machines. Will you help me find my father? 
AXUM: I'll see what I can do. There are other children here. Would you like to meet them? 
SEVEN: I just got here, too. This environment is intimidating, but I believe it's safe. 
(The boy goes ahead of them.)
SEVEN: He was just assimilated. 
AXUM: He's probably still in a maturation chamber. 
SEVEN: Are you telling me this isn't a real place? It's some kind of virtual construct?. 
AXUM: We come here during our regeneration cycles. We can exist as individuals here. 
(They look out over an inlet.)
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero. 
AXUM: You used to come here, before you escaped the Collective. You have the recessive mutation, too. Don't you remember any of it? 
SEVEN: No. What mutation? 
AXUM: Only one out of a million drones has it. 
SEVEN: Why did you bring me here now? 
AXUM: The Collective has found a way to detect us. It's a lengthy procedure, but they've managed to identify and deactivate nearly two hundred of us over the last few months. It's only a matter of time before they find enough of us to isolate the interlink frequency. Once they've done that. You can help us stop them. 
SEVEN: Clarify. 
AXUM: We've designed a nanovirus that should mask the biochemical signature of the mutation, but we need someone to release it into the Collective. 
SEVEN: You're already on a Borg vessel. Why don't you do it? 
AXUM: After we've completed our regeneration cycle we have no memory of this place. You are not a part of the Collective anymore. You're our only connection to the real world. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
(The drones cortical array is removed from its severed head.)
QUEEN: Scan the node for residual harmonics. It's a shame you're not alive to experience disembodiment. It's the epitome of perfection. Give it to me. We have isolated the carrier band but it's useless to us without the precise frequency. We need additional data. Two more of the mutations have been discovered in spatial grid six four nine. Have their cortical nodes removed and analysed. Bring me the results. 
[Encampment] 
(Under transparent canopies.)
AXUM: Unimatrix Zero is our sanctuary. When we're here, our thoughts are our own. 
SEVEN: What was my function?. 
AXUM: You're thinking like a Borg. Our only function here is to try and regain a fragment of the lives we lost when we were assimilated. 
ALIEN CHILD: Mister Axum? 
AXUM: Go introduce yourself. They won't mind. 
GIRL: Hello, do you want to play? 
ALIEN CHILD: Sure. 
(An alien man appears.)
LAURA: Siral, over here. I was hoping you'd come. It's great to see you. 
(He is hugged by a human woman.)
SIRAL: It's always good to be back. 
SEVEN: I remember him. 
AXUM: You were friends. You knew a lot of people here. You were a part of our lives for eighteen years. 
SEVEN: I'm willing to help, but I can't do it alone. I'm part of a starship crew now. I'll have to inform my Captain. 
(The Klingon warrior approaches them.
KOROK: I told you not to bring her here. 
AXUM: We can't do this by ourselves. 
KOROK: It's too great a risk. 
AXUM: We don't have a choice. 
KOROK: You do not speak for all of us. 
AXUM: What would you rather do? Have us wait until we're all discovered? You disappoint me. Where's your warrior spirit? 
KOROK: PetaQ! I'll rip your heart out. 
AXUM: Go ahead, kill me. I'll be back when I begin my next regeneration cycle. You can't stop me, Korok. 
KOROK: If you come here again, you'll be putting your starship at risk and all of us as well. 
LAURA: Shouldn't you be off sharpening your teeth? 
(Korok leaves.)
SEVEN: I know you. Your name is Laura. You're human. 
LAURA: I was assimilated at Wolf three five nine. It's good to see you again. But you look out of place. Your cybernetic implants. 
SEVEN: Our Doctor was unable to remove all of my Borg components. 
AXUM: You don't have to look that way here. 
SEVEN: My appearance is irrelevant. 
AXUM: No, it's not. They may have turned us into drones, but they can't change the essence of who we are. My cycle's about to end. Talk to your captain. We can't do this without 
(Axum steps out of his alcove, a drone again.) 
[Briefing room] 
PARIS: Another round with the Borg? 
SEVEN: We'd only need to infiltrate a single vessel. 
PARIS: Oh, just one? 
SEVEN: I am prepared to take a shuttle and do this alone. 
KIM: No offence, but how do you know that this wasn't some kind of a dream? 
EMH: Seven was wearing a cortical monitor. She never reached REM sleep. She wasn't dreaming. 
SEVEN: Unimatrix Zero is real, and so are the people who go there. They need our help. 
JANEWAY: What else can you tell us about this place? How many drones? 
SEVEN: No one is certain. Axum told me there could be tens of 
JANEWAY: Axum? 
SEVEN: He's someone I used to know. He told me there could be tens of thousands, perhaps more. 
JANEWAY: How was it created? 
SEVEN: Some of them believe it began as a random malfunction during the assimilation of a single drone, and eventually spread to the others. 
TORRES: Well, this is all very interesting, but are we sure it's worth putting our lives on the line? 
SEVEN: It's my understanding that when we receive a distress call, we respond. Starfleet protocols. 
KIM: She's right. This is no different. 
JANEWAY: I understand your reluctance, but Seven's discovered a potential weakness in the Collective. Before we decide how to proceed I'd like to learn as much about it as we can. 
CHAKOTAY: Too bad you don't have the luxury of an interlink node. 
TUVOK: There is another possibility. A Vulcan technique known as the bridging of minds. 
JANEWAY: Go on. 
TUVOK: I would need to initiate a mind meld with both you and Seven, acting as a telepathic conduit. 
EMH: You make it sound like a conference call. Captain, it is my professional opinion that we wait until 
JANEWAY: Objection noted. I think you'll be turning in early tonight. 
[Corridor] 
JANEWAY: Stay at Yellow alert. Maintain long-range scans for Borg vessels. Any sign of trouble, you know where to find me. 
CHAKOTAY: This will be one away mission for the record books. 
JANEWAY: Mind melds. The last time I heard the words my mind to your mind, I had a headache for two weeks. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm willing to volunteer if you'd rather hold down the fort. 
JANEWAY: I appreciate your trying to protect me, but a chance to see this place? It's worth a headache. 
[Cargo Bay two] 
EMH: How many times have you actually performed this bridging of heads? 
TUVOK: Minds. Never. 
EMH: Then how can you be certain it'll work? 
TUVOK: Nothing is certain, Doctor. However, I once observed a Vulcan master perform the technique. I am reasonably confident I can duplicate his success. 
EMH: Watching and doing are two different things. 
TUVOK: As always, your logic is impeccable. 
EMH: What a comfort. 
TUVOK: We're ready, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Let's do it. 
(The EMH puts a gizmo on Janeway's neck and she steps up into an alcove.)
TUVOK: As the conduit, I'll be aware of both your perceptions. If something goes wrong, I'll break the meld. 
JANEWAY: Understood. 
(Tuvok puts his hands on the women's faces. They are monitored on Neural/Synaptic monitor 147.)
TUVOK: Your minds to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. Your minds to my mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. 
[Forest] 
SEVEN: Welcome to Unimatrix Zero. 
JANEWAY: Seven? 
(Seven has discarded her implants, let down her hair and donned a purple blouse.)
SEVEN: Annika. That's what I'm called here. 
(A group go by, talking and laughing.)
JANEWAY: Drones? 
SEVEN: Come on. Let's find Axum. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
(Another head has been severed. It is an old cast of Brent Spiner from Datalore.)
QUEEN: We're close. I can almost hear them. Bring us closer. 
(It is put on a spike next to the first head.)
QUEEN: There. Amplify. Disrupt the frequency. It's not working. They're using a triaxillating modulation. You're making this very difficult. If we can't terminate their link then we'll simply have to pay them a visit. 
[Forest] 
AXUM: You can see why we want to protect this place. 
JANEWAY: We're prepared to help you, but I'm concerned that we'd only be putting off the inevitable. Even if we succeeded and you could remain hidden for a year, ten years, the Borg would eventually find you again. Have you ever considered a more permanent solution? 
AXUM: More permanent? 
JANEWAY: You've got a remarkable sanctuary here, but that's all it is. Maybe it's time to stop hiding and find a way to fight back. 
AXUM: That's not possible. 
JANEWAY: If you could find a way to carry your individualities into the real world, to wake up from your regeneration cycles with your memories intact, you could begin to undermine the Borg's control over you. 
SEVEN: It sounds like you're suggesting a civil war. 
JANEWAY: I prefer to call it a resistance movement. 
AXUM: That's very ambitious, Captain. But we can't retain our memories. 
JANEWAY: Not yet. But we know a good deal about Borg technology. Maybe we could 
(She is interrupted by a woman's scream. People are running. A drone is in the forest. It grabs a man, injects him with its tubules and he vanishes.) 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: We've found another. Spatial grid three two six, Cube one one eight four. Continue. 
(One of her drones steps into an alcove and appears in the forest. It grabs a woman and injects her.) 
QUEEN: Welcome back. Spatial grid nine eight two, Cube four six one. 
(This drone grabs the new alien child. Korok attacks it with his bat'leth. The drone disappears. Other drones appear and are dispatched until one gets the better of Korok. Janeway picks up the bat'leth and disposes of the drone.)
QUEEN: Janeway. 
[Bridge] 
CHAKOTAY: How's your headache? 
[Ready room] 
CHAKOTAY: I'm guessing it didn't go well. 
JANEWAY: Let's just say we ran into a little trouble. Have a seat, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: I'd prefer to stand. 
JANEWAY: The Collective's found a way to infiltrate Unimatrix Zero. It won't be long before they learn enough to destroy it from the inside out. I plan to stop them. 
CHAKOTAY: What have you got in mind? 
JANEWAY: The people there are vulnerable. They don't have the ability to take action in the real world. We're going to give them that ability. 
CHAKOTAY: How? 
JANEWAY: The Doctor and B'Elanna are working on it. I know what you're thinking. We'd be violating half a dozen Starfleet protocols. And if the Collective ever learned we were involved we'd be putting Voyager in the middle of a civil war. Valid objections. Chakotay, we've had our disagreements and there have been times when I've chosen to proceed without your support. But this can't be one of those times. I won't do this without my First Officer. 
CHAKOTAY: The way I see it, risking the safety of Voyager is a small price to pay. If we help these people, this could be the turning point in our battle against the Borg. 
JANEWAY: I'm glad we agree, because I almost talked myself out of it. 
CHAKOTAY: Somehow I don't think you were ever in danger of doing that. 
JANEWAY: You'll inform the crew? 
[Sickbay] 
(Emulation subroutine 408 is on a monitor.)
EMH: This is the nanovirus Axum designed to prevent the Borg from detecting those with the genetic mutation. But I've modified it to nullify their cortical inhibitors instead. Once they're infected, they should retain their memories of Unimatrix Zero after they leave their alcoves. 
SEVEN: Does that mean they'll be able to function as individuals? Stand up to the Collective? 
EMH: There's no way to tell. This is highly experimental. 
JANEWAY: How do we deploy it? 
TORRES: Correct me if I'm wrong, but each Borg vessel has a device that links it to every other Borg ship. 
SEVEN: The central plexus. 
TORRES: If we can gain access to one of those and release the virus there, it should be transmitted throughout the Collective instantly. 
JANEWAY: Any Borg activity in the region? 
(Torres calls up a long range scan 321.)
TORRES: It just dropped out of transwarp three point six light years from here. 
SEVEN: This is a class four tactical vessel, heavily armed. The central plexus is protected by multi-regenerative security grids. We'd be detected long before we could reach it. 
JANEWAY: Meet me in main Engineering. We're going to find a way in. Prepare the virus. 
EMH: Aye, Captain. 
[Corridor] 
JANEWAY: I think it's time for you to take another nap. Pay a visit to Unimatrix Zero. Tell our friends we haven't forgotten them. I couldn't help but notice you were a little different in Unimatrix Zero, and I don't mean your lack of Borg implants. You seemed more 
SEVEN: Human. 
JANEWAY: If you don't mind my saying so, it suited you. 
SEVEN: I've been told I spent a great deal of time there. But since I don't remember Unimatrix Zero any more than I remember Earth, it's irrelevant. 
JANEWAY: To you maybe, but if what I saw was any indication, Annika would disagree. 
[Encampment] 
AXUM: The Klingons have banded together and they're giving bat'leths to anybody who can handle one. Hirogen hunters are moving through the forest targeting drones, but we're losing people every hour. 
SEVEN: Captain Janeway intends to keep her promise. 
AXUM: This isn't your battle. You don't owe us anything. 
SEVEN: Voyager won't abandon you. 
(Axum picks up a bat'leth.)
AXUM: A gift from Korok. Takes some getting used to. 
SEVEN: I'm sure you'll adapt. 
LAURA: Eleven more drones, three hundred metres. 
[Forest] 
(Axum and Seven hide as three drones come along the path.)
AXUM: Sorry. 
(He takes his arm from around Seven's shoulder.) 
SEVEN: That felt familiar. Our touching. 
AXUM: I told you. We were friends. 
SEVEN: Elaborate. 
AXUM: Now is not the best time. 
(Seven kisses him.)
SEVEN: We were more than friends, weren't we? Why didn't you tell me? 
AXUM: You'd forgotten. It wasn't my place. 
SEVEN: How long? 
AXUM: Six years. Only while we were regenerating. A very memorable six years. For me, anyway. 
SEVEN: I should return to Voyager. 
AXUM: Annika. 
SEVEN: My name is Seven of Nine.
(Seven steps out of her alcove.) 
[Engineering] 
EMH: Can't we find another Borg ship? A Sphere, maybe? Something less imposing? 
TORRES: I rechecked long range sensors. There's nothing. 
JANEWAY: This is our target. You'll keep a transporter lock on me. Once I make it to the central plexus and release the virus, you can beam me back. 
EMH: In how many pieces? It's ridiculous. 
SEVEN: Agreed. I should go. I'm the only one with experience. 
JANEWAY: You're our only connection to Unimatrix Zero. You're needed here. It was my decision to help these people. This is my responsibility. 
TUVOK: Starfleet Tactical Directive thirty six. The captain will not engage a hostile force without the protection of a security officer. The probability of success is greater if there are two of us. 
TORRES: Make that three. If you're going to pull this off you'll need an engineer in there. 
PARIS: B'Elanna. 
TORRES: Tactical directive thirty six A. 
PARIS: There is no directive thirty six A. 
TORRES: There is now. 
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer. But if that Cube attacks Voyager, you'll be needed here. Now you have your orders. Set a course, Mister Paris. 
[Corridor] 
CHAKOTAY: Remember when I said I didn't have any objections? 
JANEWAY: Can't this wait till I get back? 
CHAKOTAY: I realise I'm not going to talk you out of this, but I'll be damned if you're going in there alone. 
JANEWAY: We've got a lot of work to do, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: You said you wanted my support. Then take Tuvok and B'Elanna with you. 
JANEWAY: And if I don't? 
CHAKOTAY: I may only be First Officer, but I still pull a few strings around here. The Doctor could be persuaded to question your medical fitness. 
JANEWAY: I was hoping for your unconditional support. 
CHAKOTAY: This is the best I can do. 
JANEWAY: Tell them to pack light. 
(The lights flicker.) 
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Report. 
[Bridge] 
KIM: Someone's trying to tap into the main computer. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Source? 
KIM: It's some kind of transwarp signal. It's activating the comm. system. 
(A green light suffuses the bridge.)
KIM: Captain, 
[Corridor] 
KIM [OC]: I think it's for you. 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: Captain. 
JANEWAY: It's been a long time. How are things in the Collective? 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: Perfect, for the most part. Voyager? 
JANEWAY: Never better. 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: I understand you've established contact with Starfleet. Perhaps you'll be getting home sooner than you expected. 
JANEWAY: Perhaps. 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: We could help you. 
CHAKOTAY: How so?. 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: Transwarp technology. You'd find that we can be quite accommodating, but we'd expect the same in return. 
JANEWAY: I'm not sure I know what you mean. 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: You know exactly what I mean. Tend to your own crew. Stay away from things that don't concern you. 
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that, but thanks for the offer. 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: I won't be as accommodating next time. Reconsider. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. 
QUEEN [on viewscreen]: We'll see you soon, Harry. 
(Transmission ends.)
KIM: What did she mean by that? 
CHAKOTAY: Why the stab at diplomacy? 
JANEWAY: She's trying to find out what we're up to. She's worried. Have B'Elanna and Tuvok meet me in Sickbay. 
[Delta Flyer] 
(In the shuttlebay.)
PARIS: Watch the starboard plasma injectors. They tend to run a little hot at high impulse. 
TORRES: I'll keep an eye on it. 
PARIS: The warp matrix is out of alignment. 
TORRES: By point three microns. Since when are you so meticulous? 
PARIS: Since you volunteered for this insane mission. You know, I could sabotage the helm. You'd never make it out the launch doors. 
TORRES: Then I'd have to put you on report. You might lose that new pip of yours. 
PARIS: That'd be a small price to pay. 
[Bridge] 
TUVOK: We're in visual range. 
JANEWAY: On screen. Magnify. 
(The Cube has a lot of extra armour.)
TORRES [OC]: Torres to bridge. 
JANEWAY: Go ahead. 
TORRES [OC]: The Delta Flyer is ready for launch. 
JANEWAY: On my way. Guess I'd better be going, huh? 
CHAKOTAY: Anything you'd like done around here while you're gone? Gravity plating recalibrated, carpets cleaned? 
(She takes his hand.)
JANEWAY: Surprise me. You have the bridge. 
[Settlement] 
SEVEN: You need to prepare the others. When they leave their alcoves they may be startled, disoriented. But they have to behave like drones or we could all be exposed. 
LAURA: Our ships are scattered across the galaxy. Most of us will be the only drone on board who knows about this place. 
KOROK: She's right. What can we hope to achieve? 
AXUM: We should each gather as much tactical data as we can. What kind of ship we're on, its armaments, location. Then we'll coordinate our efforts from here. If all goes well, we'll be working very closely together. 
SEVEN: As colleagues, nothing more. Our previous friendship
AXUM: Yes? 
SEVEN: It's irrelevant. 
AXUM: Irrelevant? Well, now that I'll be able to retain my memory, I'll keep that in mind. 
[Bridge] 
(Voyager is attacking the Cube.)
CHAKOTAY: Report. 
KIM: Direct hit to their shield emitters. No damage. 
CHAKOTAY: Increase phaser yield. Where's the Flyer? 
PARIS: They're approaching. Heading zero one seven mark three. 
[Delta Flyer] 
(They are watching the fight.)
JANEWAY: Status? 
TUVOK: Voyager has sustained damage, but they are continuing their assault. 
TORRES: Come on, Chakotay. 
TUVOK: One of the Cube's shield grids is fluctuating. Ventral axis, secondary emitter. 
JANEWAY: Cut primary power. Thrusters only. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: Tactical cube one three eight is under attack. 
(She calls up a visual on her screen.) 
[Bridge] 
KIM: Our forward shields are down. 
CHAKOTAY: The Flyer? 
PARIS: They're closing. Fifty kilometres. 
CHAKOTAY: Maintain fire. 
PARIS: Thirty kilometres, twenty. They're in range. 
[Borg Queen's Chamber] 
QUEEN: Enhance grid six one one nine. 
(She has seen the Delta Flyer.)
QUEEN: Captain, I expected something more cunning from you. 
[Delta Flyer] 
TORRES: It's time. 
JANEWAY: Their ventral shield grid? 
TUVOK: Still fluctuating at a rate of point zero six terahertz. 
JANEWAY: Align our transporters to match. 
TUVOK: Aye. 
[Bridge] 
PARIS: They've detected them. 
(The Delta Flyer is blown to molecules.) 
EMH: They're inside. 
KIM: Direct hit to the port nacelle. We're venting plasma. 
PARIS: Should I back off? 
CHAKOTAY: No. We need to stay close. 
[Borg Cube] 
(The Queen watches the away team's progress. The first two drones are easily killed with phaser rifles, but the second pair are unaffected.)
TORRES: They've adapted. 
[Bridge] 
(Voyager continues to throw photon torpedoes at the Cube.)
KIM: Hull breach, deck eleven. 
PARIS: They're targeting our warp core. 
EMH: No change yet. 
[Borg Cube] 
(Janeway walks into a forcefield.)
JANEWAY: We'll have to take the long way around. 
(There is another one right behind them.) 
JANEWAY: Tuvok. 
(Three drones walk through the forcefield. There is a brief fight with rifle butts, then our trio are assimilated. The Queen breathes in deeply as she feels them join the Collective.) 
[Bridge] 
EMH: Their lifesigns are destabilising. 
CHAKOTAY: So far, so good. You can take us out of here now, Tom.
(Voyager goes to warp and leaves their colleagues as full drones on the Cube.) 
To Be Continued... 
