Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Our destination is planet Deneb Four, beyond which lies the great unexplored mass of the galaxy. My orders are to examine Farpoint, a starbase built there by the inhabitants of that world. Meanwhile, I am becoming better acquainted with my new command, this Galaxy Class USS Enterprise. I am still somewhat in awe of its size and complexity. As for my crew, we are short in several key positions, most notably a first officer, but I am informed that a highly experienced man, one Commander William Riker, will be waiting to join our ship at our Deneb Four destination.#
Captain's log, supplementary. The frozen form of Lieutenant Torres has been rushed to sickbay. The question now is the incredible power of the Q being. Do we dare oppose it?#
Captain's log, stardate 41153.7. Preparing to detach saucer section. so that families and the majority of the ship's company can seek relative safety while the vessel's stardrive, containing the battle bridge and main armaments, will turn back and confront the mystery that is threatening us.#
Captain's log, stardate 41174.2. The agreement for the rebuilding Farpoint Station has been completed per my instructions.#
Captain's log, Stardate 41209.2. We are running at warp seven to rendezvous with the science vessel SS Tsiolkovsky, which has been routinely monitoring the collapse of a red super giant star into a white dwarf. What has brought us here is a series of strange messages indicating something has gone wrong aboard the research vessel.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are downloading the research information gathered on the collapsing star nearby. I am concerned at being in such close orbit, but the Tsiolkovsky's research records will no doubt predict the time of the star's final collapse.#
Captain's log, Stardate 41209.3. The strange contaminant that led to the deaths of the Tsiolkovsky crew is now aboard the Enterprise and our Engineering section has been commandeered by young Wesley Crusher.#
Captain's log, supplemental. It is no longer an inconvenient, childish prank. Young Wesley Crusher, admittedly a victim of the Tsiolkovsky infection, is now in control of my starship.#
Captain's log, stardate 41235.25. Our location, planet Ligon Two, source of a rare vaccine needed on Federation planet Styris Four. Starfleet has instructed me to engage in a friendly visit and open treaty negotiations to acquire this medicinal substance.#
Captain's log, Stardate 41294.5. Our destination, the class M Beta Cassius planet known simply as Haven. It is a world so renowned for its peaceful beauty that some believe it to have mystical healing powers. We will rest and relax, all too briefly, I fear#
Captain's log, supplemental. It has been believed the Tarellian race was extinct, an assumption contradicted now by the sight of one of their vessels approaching Haven.#
Captain's log, supplemental. All attempts at warning off the Tarellian ship have failed. They still refuse to communicate and I am growing concerned.#
Captain's log, stardate 41294.6. Orbiting Haven with the Tarellian vessel locked in our tractor beam. Question. What strange of circumstances has caused a woman out of someone's imagination to appear on the plague ship?#
Captain's log, Stardate 41263.1. We have rendezvoused with the USS Fearless, from which a Starfleet propulsion expert and his assistant are beaming over to conduct tests on the Enterprise's warp drive engines. They have completed similar adjustments on two other Starfleet vessels.#
Captain's log, stardate 41263.2. This will be a rather unusual log entry, assuming Starfleet ever receives it. As I have already informed my crew, a phenomenal surge of power during a warp speed experiment has sent our starship hurtling out of our own galaxy, past another, taking us over two million seven hundred thousand light years in a few minutes.#
Captain's log, stardate 41263.3. Instead of returning to our own galaxy, the Enterprise has gone forward to a place in the universe which is uncharted and unknown. Our present position puts us at over a billion light years from our galaxy.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Our position is unknown, and our only chance of returning to the known universe is a dying alien who is generally humanoid but with a physiology sufficiently different from our own to create medical problems in caring for him.#
Captain's log. Any time entry is meaningless. We have no choice but to repeat the same warp experiment. but wish one variation. A principal part of this warp formula will be the thoughts of everyone aboard the Enterprise. We have no idea exactly how this works. We understand only that the Traveller makes use of this somehow. It will be most important that those aboard avoid random thoughts that might change the reality of what we're attempting to do.#
Captain's log, stardate 41386.4. We are in pursuit of a starship of Ferengi design. Our mission is to intercept and recover a T9 energy converter which the Ferengi stole from an unmanned monitor post on Gamma Tauri Four. A theft which automatic scanners recorded, providing us with the long awaited opportunity to make close contact with a Ferengi vessel. If we succeed in this chase, it will be Starfleet's first look at a life form which, discounting rumour, we know almost nothing about.#
Captain's log, stardate 41386.5. It is with a heavy heart that I have offered to meet whatever reasonable and necessary terms are demanded by the Ferengi. I fear for my people and my vessel in the event the unknown Ferengi ask the unreasonable. How can I oppose even unreasonable demands?#
Captain's log, supplemental. In orbit of a mysterious planet, whose unexplained forcefield has seized us with a power almost beyond imagination. If there is a solution to this, it almost certainly will involve cooperation from the Ferengi.#
Captain's log, supplemental. It is now six hours since our away team beamed down to the planet surface. On the Enterprise, our condition is rapidly worsening. Ordinarily, with reserve power alone, we could maintain life support for several months. But the force holding has closed down all engines and is draining our reserve power too.#
Captain's log, stardate 41249.3. We have orbited the two major planets of the Beta Renner system taking aboard delegates from those two worlds. Since achieving space flight, their major life forms, the Anticans and the Selay have become deadly enemies. But both have also applied for admission into our Federation. We are to deliver these delegates to this sector's neutral conference planet, called Parliament, in the hope their dispute can be resolved.#
Captain's log, stardate 41249.4. I've ordered an immediate investigation into the death of Assistant Chief Engineer Singh. We continue to run on impulse power.#
Captain's log, stardate 41255.6. After delivering a party of Earth colonists to the Strnad solar system, we have discovered another Class M planet in the adjoining Rubicun star system. We are now in orbit there, having determined it to be inhabited as well as unusually lovely. My first officer has taken an away team down to make contact and they are in the process of returning to the ship.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit of a planet designated Rubicun Three, the home of a life form who call themselves the Edo. Our away team, including Wesley Crusher, has beamed down to make arrangements concerning some well-deserved recreation.#
Captain's log, stardate 41255.9. Whatever the object or vessel in orbit with us, it hangs there like a nemesis. It is one thing to communicate with something mysterious, but it is quite another to be silently observed by it. I am concerned whether it understands the same concept of reason that we do?#
Captain's log, stardate 41723.9. In response to a Starfleet order we are in the Xendi Sabu star system, having rendezvoused with a Ferengi vessel which has requested a meeting. Although we arrived here and made appropriate signals to the Ferengi three days ago, they have so far responded only with the message, stand by Enterprise.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Bok and his officers have returned to their vessel, inviting us now to officially take possession of the Stargazer.#
Captain's log, stardate 41590.5. Having dropped off Counsellor Troi at Starbase G6 for a shuttle to visit home, we were fortunately close to the Sigma Three solar system when its Federation colony transmitted an urgent call for medical help. An accidental explosion has devastated a mining operation there.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Our rescue mission to the Sigma Three solar system has been halted by an immense grid and an untimely visit from Q#
Captain's log, stardate 41591.4. Twelve minutes out from Quadra Sigma Three where the survivors of an underground disaster desperately need our help. Aboard the Enterprise, First Officer William T. Riker needs help nearly as badly. But this is a subject far out of my experience. Out of any human's experience.#
Captain's log, stardate 41309.5. We are in orbit around Persephone Five, where I have been sent to confer with Admiral Mark Jameson in regard to an extraordinary situation.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Jaradan rendezvous still is eleven hours away. I am about to reenter the world of Dixon Hill, this time properly dressed. An experience like this is more enjoyable when shared, so I've invited our fiction expert, Whalen, to accompany me. Doctor Crusher will join us shortly.#
Captain's log, stardate 41242.4. Our last assignment has taken us into the remote Omicron Theta star system, home of our android crewmember Lieutenant Commander Data. Although we are due at our next assignment, I have decided to visit Data's home planet for a few hours in the hopes of unravelling some of the mystery of his beginnings.#
Captain's log, Stardate 41242.45. Despite having only a few hours in which to explore Data's home planet we've discovered something which may explain Data's beginnings, if we can properly assemble and communicate with what we've found.#
Captain's log, stardate 41242.5. Thanks to Lore's report, we now know what happened to the colonists. Beginning with a child's drawing, enhanced by Lore's description, our computer has constructed the image of a great crystalline entity which feeds on life, insatiably ravenous for the life force found in living forms, capable of stripping all life from an entire world.#
Captain's log, stardate 41636.9. As feared, our examination of the seven year overdue Federation freighter, Odin, disabled by an asteroid collision, revealed no survivors. However, three escape pods were missing, suggesting the possibility of survivors.#
Captain's log, stardate 41365.9. The Enterprise has been ordered to Starbase 74, in orbit around Tarsas Three. A routine maintenance check of all systems will be made, and certain upgrades completed, including the holodeck, with which we've had problems. I anticipate a glowing report. The ship has performed magnificently, beyond anyone's expectations.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We now know who has commandeered the Enterprise. The Bynars. We can't communicate with the Bridge. Commander Riker and I will now try to regain control of our ship.#
Captain's log, stardate 41463.9. While mapping the Pleiades Cluster, we've been asked by the Federation to visit a group terraforming Velara Three. Communications have been erratic and there is some concern about their welfare.#
Captain's log, supplemental. On my order, Data's startling discovery of a possible life form has been beamed aboard so that its true nature might be uncovered. But unlike life on Earth and elsewhere, it appears to be completely inorganic.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The inorganic life form from Velara Three has apparently taken over our Medical Lab.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The life form, which has significantly increased in size, is again attempting to communicate with us.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have regained visual contact with the lab, but our attempts to restore communication with this microbrain, as we have come to call it, has been unsuccessful. One thing that is certain, however. This life form has declared war on us.#
Captain's log, stardate 41464.8. I have declared an indefinite quarantine for Velara Three, and we are now returning to Starbase with the three surviving terraformers. Perhaps the lesson we have learned from this near tragedy will prevent it from happening elsewhere.#
Captain's log, stardate 41509.1. Either by chance or intent, we've been led to the planet Aldea, which appeared out of nowhere, hidden behind a sophisticated shielding device.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We remain in orbit around Aldea. It's becoming all too evident that talk will not effect the return of our children. We must neutralise the Aldean shield. Until then, we are helpless.#
Captain's log, stardate 41512.4. We are twenty hours away from Aldea, and no closer to a solution. Their deliberate show of force pushed us out of orbit and could have easily disintegrated the ship.#
Captain's log, stardate 41416.2. We're orbiting Relva Seven, where Wesley Crusher is about to be tested for entrance into Starfleet Academy. And to my great surprise, I have just learned that my old friend Admiral Gregory Quinn is on Relva Seven, and has requested to be beamed aboard the Enterprise immediately.#
seeming discrepancies in the Captain's log. Let's go over them one by one, shall we?#
discrepancies in the Captain's log. Shall we go over them one by one?#
Captain's log, stardate 41503.7. We have entered the Neutral Zone, where a Talarian freighter has been severely damaged in a battle. I have sent an away team to investigate.#
Captain's log, stardate 41798.2. We have been ordered by Starfleet to proceed to the Lorenze Cluster and investigate the disappearance of a light cruiser, USS Drake, which was in that system trying to unravel a mystery of its own which began when recent long range probes indicated that all intelligent life on the planet Minos has disappeared.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Some kind of weapon, which for a time took the form of Captain Paul Rice, has enveloped Commander Riker.#
Captain's log, stardate 41601.3. We are crossing through the Zed Lapis sector, where we will rendezvous with shuttlecraft thirteen, carrying Deanna Troi, who is returning from a conference. Because Engineering is involved in preventive maintenance on our dilithium crystals, we are presently travelling on impulse power.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've lost all contact with shuttlecraft thirteen, and can only assume they've crash-landed on Vagra Two. Meanwhile, main Engineering is trying to return us to warp power.#
Captain's log, supplemental. While on a mission to rescue survivors from an unexplained shuttle crash, the away team has encountered a strange creature which seems able to assume different forms, including one which resembles humanoid.#
Captain's log, supplemental. There is grave danger to the crew on Vagra Two. My first officer is missing, attacked by this entity known as Armus.#
Captain's log, stardate 41602.1. The shuttlecraft has been destroyed to prevent any possibility of Armus leaving the planet. Vagra Two will be declared off limits. But the damage has been done. One of the saddest duties I've ever had to perform is now ahead of me.#
Captain's log, stardate 41697.9. We're en route to Sarona Eight for much needed shore leave. The entire crew is looking forward to the diversion. On a personal note, I have allowed myself the luxury of a head start.#
Captain's log, stardate 41780.2. How difficult after all these years of learning to respect life, to be forced to destroy it. But there seems to be no alternative. Admiral Quinn is expected to make a full recovery. There is no trace of the parasite which took control of him. We'll never know how many of these life forms infiltrated Starfleet, but it seems they could not survive without the mother creature which had taken over Commander Remmick.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have arrived at the edge of the Neutral Zone, where we will now have an opportunity to learn firsthand what happened to our distant outpost.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42073.1. There has been an outbreak of an unclassified plasma plague in the Rachelis system. We are on an emergency run to collect specimens of the deadly plague and transport them to Science Station Tango Sierra, where hopefully an antidote can be produced.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have finally arrived at 'audet Nine, where we will pick up the specimens of plasma plague for transport to Rachelis. It is only because so many lives are at stake that I am willing to put this ship and crew at such great risk. Meanwhile, Counsellor Troi's pregnancy continues to progress at an astonishing rate.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Although it's been fourteen hours since we arrived at 'audet Nine. Hester Dealt has still not completed inspection of the containment unit. A transfer will not be permitted until he's assured of zero growth during our voyage. Meanwhile, the desperate pleas from the Rachelis System continue.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are faced with two major problems. Troi's child and the deadly cargo we are about to take on. In the hours since his birth, Troi's baby has continued his rapid growth and now appears, physically and mentally, to be a child of eight. Still there is no indication as to who he is, or why he is here.#
Captain's log, supplemental. For reasons as yet unknown, one of the deadly specimens of plasma plague has begun to grow.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42193.6. We are on a long reach toward the Morgana Quadrant, a section of the galaxy which has yet to be visited by a manned Federation vessel. We are using the time to further detail the charts of this region.#
Captain's log, supplemental. While exploring a strange void in space without any form of matter or energy, we have apparently moved past its outer boundary and entered it. After a brief disruption, our ship's communications have returned to normal.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We remain like a fly in amber, trapped in the void. We have encountered a vessel which appears to be the USS Yamato. All its systems are shown as functioning, yet it seems devoid of life. Commander Riker is leading an away team. Hopefully, the answer lies over there.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42194.7. It is obvious that whatever we have met sees no value in our kind of life form. How do we fight something that both is and is not there?#
Captain's log, Stardate 42286.3. We have arrived on station at coordinates three six two nine by five eight four, three days early for our rendezvous with the USS Victory. There is nothing to do now but hold this position and wait.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42402.7. We are travelling in the Omega Sagitta system traversing between twin planets that form the Coalition of Madena. Both worlds is populated by a humanoid race which colonised the planets two centuries ago, and which now co-exist under a precarious but successful treaty.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Some of the mystery surrounding this ancient morality play we've been dragged into has been revealed. One of Captain Okona's pursuers is an outraged father with a heartfelt, if arcane, sense of righteousness.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42437.7. We've successfully repaired the stricken liner, Constantinople. Forty six of her people suffered injuries, mostly minor. They have been treated and supplied with the proper medicines. Our task complete, we are heading back to Gravesworld with great dispatch.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I leave Gravesworld with an empty feeling and the knowledge that our mission was unsuccessful. Whatever scientific secrets Ira Graves was about to unlock have been lost forever. Our immediate priority is to reach the nearest starbase so that Graves' assistant can get on with her life.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We've said goodbye to Kareen Brianon, with the hopeful feeling that her future will be a bright one. The intellect of Ira Graves has been deposited into our computer. There is knowledge but no consciousness. The human equation has been lost.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42477.2. The Enterprise has been diverted to the Ramatis star system. It seems that both sides of a bitter planetary conflict have petitioned Starfleet to transport to their world a mediator they have mutually selected. Our orders are transportation only, no interference.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are monitoring increased military activity on Solais Five. I fear that without Riva, we will be unable to keep the Solari from destroying themselves.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42494.8. The Enterprise is bound for Star Station India to rendezvous with a Starfleet medical courier. We've been told only that our presence is imperative. Hopefully the mission will give me further opportunities to assess the performance of our new Chief Medical Officer.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We're en route to the Federation Research station on Gagarin Four. The mere thought of a possible connection between the Lantree tragedy and a genetic research facility fills me with profound apprehension.#
Captain's log, stardate 42506.5. We have departed from Starbase one seven nine and are headed for a rendezvous with the Klingon vessel, Pagh. I have informed the staff of Commander Riker's temporary assignment.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42507.8. Although our search has been extensive, we are still unable to locate the Klingon ship or any evidence of it's destruction.#
Captain's log, stardate 42523.7. We are en route to newly established Starbase one seven three for port call. Crew rotation is scheduled, and we will be off-loading experiment modules.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Bruce Maddox, having been thwarted by Data's abrupt resignation, is now seeking a legal remedy for his woes. Captain Louvois has requested my presence at those discussions.#
Captain's log, stardate 42568.8. Since Anya's powers of transformation apparently gave her the ability to escape her guards unnoticed, we have sealed her quarters with a forcefield that will contain her no matter how small a form she may take.#
Captain's log, stardate 42609.1. In response to a desperate plea for aid by my old friend, Captain Donald Varley of the USS Yamato, I am running a grave risk by taking the Enterprise into the Neutral Zone. Varley's request was prompted by dangerous malfunctions which have been plaguing our sister ship. Perhaps with both crews working together we can able to eliminate the problems before our presence is detected by the Romulans.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Yamato's entire crew and their families, more than a thousand people, have been lost. Circumstances unfortunately permit us no pause for grief.#
Captain's log, supplemental. As happened with our sister ship, the Enterprise is being to experience a series of system failures. So far they are random, but I fear they could be early symptoms of what happened to the Yamato.#
Captain's log, supplemental. While there is little left on the surface of Iconia, we have found what appears to be a control centre which seems to have remained intact.#
Captain's log, stardate 42625.4, We're entering orbit around the eighth planet in this previously unmapped Theta One Sixteen solar system. We diverted from our scheduled course when a passing Klingon cruiser reported discovering pieces of a strange vessel in the upper atmosphere of this planet. We have come to investigate.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We remain in orbit around Theta Eight, still out of contact with the away team.#
Captain's log, stardate 42679.2. While en route to the Endicor system, we have encountered a Federation shuttlecraft, which seems to have appeared out of nowhere. There are no indications of where it came from or how it got out here.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Part of the mystery has been solved. The reason there are two number five shuttlecrafts is because one of them is from the future. Six hours, to be exact. And so, presumably, is the facsimile of me.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I've been informed that Mister Data has recovered the logs from the duplicate shuttlecraft. I am more than apprehensive to play back a log which will not be recorded for several hours.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We continue on course to Endicor. We are now less than two hours away from our rendezvous with ourselves.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have apparently intersected with something.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42686.4. We are en route to Starbase Montgomery for engineering consultations prompted by minor readout anomalies.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42695.3. We are the first manned vessel to enter the Selcundi Drema sector. Unmanned probes have recorded unusual levels of geological activity in all five planetary systems. I am hoping the Enterprise will find the answer to this enigma.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42696.3. We are entering the second Selcundi star system, where acting Ensign Crusher will begin his planetary mineral survey. The results of which may help unlock the geological puzzle.#
Captain's log, stardate 42737.3. It has been six weeks since our entrance into the Selcundi Drema sector. Each system has revealed the same disturbing geological upheavals on every planet.#
Captain's log, stardate 42741.3. We are entering into orbit of Drema Four, the planet from which Data received the distress signal. Sensors indicate that the volcanic activity is increasing.#
Captain's log, stardate 42761.9. Despite Guinan's warning, I feel compelled to investigate this unexplored sector of the galaxy before heading back.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have been attacked without provocation by an alien race which Guinan calls the Borg. It appears that we have neutralised their vessel. Commander Riker is leading an away team in an attempt to learn more about them.#
Captain's log supplemental. We are unable to maintain the gap between the Enterprise and the Borg ship.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42779.1. We're en route to the Epsilon Nine Sector for astronomical survey of a new pulsar cluster. In the meantime, Ensign Crusher will be diverting to Starbase Five One Five for Starfleet exams.#
Captain's log, stardate 42823.2. We're departing from Starbase Seven Three to investigate the source of the mysterious distress signal. Meanwhile, my Security Officer remains in Sickbay, where Doctor Pulaski is searching for the cause of his collapse.#
Captain's log, stardate 42827.3. Commander Riker has reached the caverns, where he is making preparations to begin the evacuation.#
Captain's log, supplemental. A review of stellar charts has revealed a Class M planet only half a light year from the Bringloid system. I am proceeding on the premise that it was the destination of the colony which possessed the more sophisticated equipment.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are approaching the class M planet where we hope to find the other colonists.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Prime Minister Granger has requested an urgent meeting to discuss the future of the Mariposan colony. I've invited him to the Enterprise.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker and Doctor Pulaski have returned to Mariposa with a team of Enterprise technicians.#
Captain's log, stardate 42901.3. Despite their cloaking shields, we have located the Klingon vessel, T'Ong. In an effort to avoid further confrontation, we're about to implement the option presented by Lieutenant Worf.#
Captain's log, Stardate 42923.4. Despite misgivings, I have agreed to Starfleet's request that the Enterprise divert to the Braslota System, to take part in a war game exercise. Joining us as observer and mediator is the Zakdorn Master Strategist, Sirna Kolrami. [Observation lounge]#
Captain's log, supplemental. With the transporter repaired and my crew safely back aboard, we have officially ended our first Starfleet battle simulation.[Ten forward]#
Captain's log, Stardate 42976.1. During a geological survey on Surata Four, Commander Riker has become infected by an unidentified microbe.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43125.8. We have entered a spectacular binary star system in the Kavis Alpha sector on a most critical mission of astro-physical research. Our eminent guest, Doctor Paul Stubbs, will attempt to study the decay of neutronium expelled at relativistic speeds by a massive stellar explosion which will occur here in a matter of hours.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Our computer core has clearly been tampered with and yet there is no sign of a breach of security on board. We have engines back and will attempt to complete our mission, but without a reliable computer, Doctor Stubbs' experiment is in serious jeopardy.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Doctor Stubbs has used his influence to have planet Kavis Alpha Four designated the new home of the nanite civilisation. Commander Data's neural network has been vacated. He has been returned to us unharmed. And with the help of the nanites, our computer core has been reconstructed in time for the experiment#
Captain's log, stardate 43152.4. We are cautiously entering the Delta Rana star system three days after receiving a distress call from the Federation colony on its fourth planet. The garbled transmission reported the colony under attack from an unidentified spacecraft. Our mission is one of rescue and, if necessary, confrontation with a hostile force.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43153.7. We are departing the Rana system for Starbase One Three Three. We leave behind a being of extraordinary power and conscience. I am not certain if he should be praised or condemned. Only that he should be left alone.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43173.5. We are en route to Mintaka Three, where a three man Federation anthropological field team has been studying the inhabitants. Our mission is to resupply the outpost and repair their malfunctioning reactor.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Doctor Crusher has repaired my injury with her usual skill. Mister La Forge will supervise the dismantling of the observation post after I make one last visit to Mintaka Three.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43205.6. We have arrived at Orelious Nine, to chart the battle in which the Menthars and Promellians fought to their mutual extinction. Among the ruins we have found a relic, a Promellian battle cruiser that has withstood the centuries.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43349.2. An unidentified distress signal has led to the discovery of a crashed Romulan vessel on the surface of Galorndon Core, a Federation planet. We have recovered one survivor, but Lieutenant Commander La Forge did not report back with the away team and is still missing.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43385.6. We are orbiting Barzan Two, which is entertaining bids for control of what appears to be a stable wormhole, which could provide a permanent shortcut to the distant Gamma Quadrant.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43421.9. In an effort to put an end to the Gatherer raids, we have come to the Acamar System to enlist the aid of Marouk, the Sovereign of Acamar Three.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43462.5. We have beamed aboard an apparent Romulan defector, who claims to be a low ranking logistics officer with extraordinary information about a secret offensive.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43463.7. We're holding a position at the Neutral Zone border proximate to Nelvana Three. If our guest is telling the truth, there are twenty one hours left before the Romulan base becomes functional.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43489.2. We have arrived at Angosia Three, a planet that has expressed a strong desire for membership in the Federation. Prime Minister Nayrok has taken Commander Riker and me on a tour of the capital city.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43510.7. The Enterprise has put in at Rutia Four to deliver medical supplies following an outbreak of violent protests. Although non-aligned, the planet has enjoyed a long trading relationship with the Federation. Now, a generation of peace has ended with terrorist attacks by Ansata separatists, who are demanding autonomy and self-determination for their homeland on the western continent. Recreational shore leave has been prohibited and all away teams have been beam down armed.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43539.1. We have moved into orbit around Bre'el Four. With the assistance of the planet's emergency control centre, we're investigating a potentially catastrophic threat to the population from a descending asteroidal moon.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are no closer to finding a solution to the deteriorating orbit of the Bre'el Four moon, but with the arrival of Q, we now have a good idea of the cause.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have sustained light damage from an attack by an alien species known as the Calamarain. They apparently have a grievance with Q. No doubt one of many lifeforms that do.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43610.4. After completing a delivery of dicosilium to the Tanuga Four research station, our away team has received an update from Doctor Nel Apgar on his efforts to create Krieger Waves, a potentially valuable new power source.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker has informed me that Doctor Apgar was the only one aboard the space station when it exploded. We remain in orbit investigating the accident.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43657.0 While Commander Riker is away on personal leave, the Enterprise has travelled to sector three nine six to begin charting the Selebi Asteroid Belt.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I have just been advised of a highly unusual project undertaken by Commander Data.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are holding position pending the arrival of Admiral Haftel from Starfleet Research. Commander Data is completing his final neural transfers to the android he has named Lal, which I have learned, in the language Hindi means beloved.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43685.2 As part of an exchange programme, we're taking aboard a Klingon officer to return the recent visit of Commander Riker to the cruiser Pagh.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43714.1. We have finally succeeded in eradicating the Phyrox plague on Cor Caroli Five, and will soon be preparing to leave orbit and proceed to our next mission. A rendezvous with the USS Hood to assist their terraforming efforts on Browder Four.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43779.3. The Enterprise is preparing detailed exospheric charts of the Hayashi system. Although tedious, this endeavour is the first step toward planet colonisation.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Travelling at high warp, we are still several days from rendezvous with the mysterious entity which Starfleet has christened Tin Man. My immediate concern is with Tam Elbrun. Starfleet considers his unique abilities crucial to our mission, yet he seems to me unstable.#
Captain's log, Supplemental. A confrontation between the Romulan Warbird and Tin Man is imminent. I have no alternative but to rely on the telepathic abilities of Tam Elbrun.#
Captain's log, supplemental. With all main systems at least temporarily restored, we are proceeding to Starbase one five two for inspection and additional repairs. We have had no further encounter with the Romulans. As for the whereabouts of Tin Man and Tam Elbrun, we can only speculate.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43807.4. We are taking on a load of special tissue samples donated by the Mikulaks for shipment to Nahmi Four. The samples could prove vital to the containment of an outbreak of Correllium Fever on that world.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43872.2. In order to neutralise a sudden contamination of the water supply at the Federation colony on Beta Agni Two, we are procuring one hundred and eight kilos of hytritium from the Zibalian trader, Kivas Fajo. Because pure hytritium is too unstable for our transporters, Lieutenant Commander Data has been shuttling the material to the Enterprise.#
Captain's log, supplemental. As the result of a yet unexplained shuttle explosion, Lieutenant Commander Data has been lost.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43917.4 The Enterprise has been given the singular honour of hosting the first meeting between the Federation and a mysterious race known as the Legarans. We are in orbit around Vulcan, preparing to welcome aboard Federation Ambassador Sarek and his wife Perrin, who like his first wife, is from Earth.#
Captain's log, supplemental. In three hours time we are scheduled to meet with the Legaran delegation. However, it is now all too evident that Ambassador Sarek is in no condition to proceed with the conference.#
Captain's log, stardate 43930.7. The Enterprise has been in attendance at the biennial Trade Agreements Conference on Betazed. For the first time, the Ferengi are present, and I have reluctantly consented to their boarding the Enterprise for the closing reception.#
Captain's log, stardate 43960.6. Our mission to map the Zeta Gelis star cluster is proceeding on schedule. Meanwhile, Doctor Crusher reports that the recovery of the patient she has named John Doe continues at a remarkable pace.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43989.1. The Enterprise has arrived at Jouret Four in response to a distress signal from one of the Federation's outermost colonies.#
Captain's log, Stardate 43992.6. Admiral Hanson and Lieutenant Commander Shelby of Starfleet Tactical have arrived to review the disappearance of New Providence colony. No sign remains of the nine hundred inhabitants.#
Captain's log, stardate 43993.5. With confirmation of the Borg's presence in Federation space, Admiral Hanson has returned to Starbase three two four to discuss strategy with Starfleet Command. Lieutenant Commander Shelby remains on board to continue tactical preparations.#
Captain's log, stardate 43996.2. The Enterprise remains concealed in the dust cloud. And to my surprise, the Borg have maintained their position, waiting for us to come out of hiding. I have no explanation for their special interest in me or this ship. We continue to prepare our defences for the inevitable confrontation, but I must admit, on this night I contemplate the distinct possibility that no defence may be adequate against this enemy.#
Captain's log, Stardate 44143.7. We have moved into Sector two one nine four seven in response to a distress call from a Talarian observation craft. The alien vessel appears adrift, and our initial scans have detected a life-threatening radiation leak within its propulsion system.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have completed emergency evacuation of four Talarians and one human. How this young man found himself in the company of these aliens remains a mystery.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Captain Endar's claim that Jeremiah Rossa is his son is clearly unacceptable. However, to avoid escalating tensions, I have invited the Talarian leader to come aboard the Enterprise so that we may address the issue face to face.#
Captain's log, Stardate 44085.7. Due to a medical emergency, we have been forced to cut short a two day liberty on Ogus Two and set course for Starbase four one six. It seems a young man's practical joke has come dangerously close to a lethal conclusion.#
Captain's log, Stardate 44091.1. We have been at Starbase four one six for three days. Young Willie Potts is responding well to treatment and has been returned to the Enterprise.#
Captain's log, stardate 44162.5. Two attempts to retrieve Doctor Crusher have failed. And now, the Traveller, a mysterious visitor from our past, has reappeared.#
Captain's log, stardate 44162.8. At the direction of the Traveller, the Enterprise is returning to Starbase one three three and the precise position where the subspace bubble was formed.#
Captain's log, stardate 44215.2. The Enterprise has bypassed its scheduled archaeological survey of Camus Two in response to a distress call from the Federation freighter Arcos, which has assumed an emergency orbit around Turkana Four, birthplace of our late comrade, Tasha Yar.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are in orbit above Turkana Four, an Earth colony that severed relations with the Federation nearly fifteen years ago. I am concerned about sending an away team, but if we are to discover the fate of the two missing Federation crewmen, I see no alternative.#
Captain's log, stardate 44225.3. Doctor Crusher has successfully removed Ishara's magnetic implant, enabling the young woman to guide our rescue attempt. Without my intending it, she has virtually become an active member of the crew.#
Captain's log, supplemental. K'mpec, who ruled the Klingon Empire longer than anyone in history, is dead. We await the arrival of Duras and Gowron, rivals for the leadership of the High Council.#
Captain's log, stardate 44307.3. I am preparing to leave by shuttlecraft for Pentarus Five, where I have been asked to mediate a dispute among the salenite miners, a contentious group unfortunately prone to violence. But first I must deal with a situation of a far more personal nature.#
Captain's log, stardate 44356.9. Sensor diagnostics have been completed and indicate that all systems are normal. There remains no explanation for the images which appeared in our path.#
Captain's log, stardate 44359.5. What began as a curious inconvenience has turned into a serious threat. At current speed, the two-dimensional beings and the Enterprise will be drawn into the cosmic string fragment in seven hours.#
Captain's log, supplemental. If our speed and course remain unchanged, in one hour the Enterprise will be torn apart by the gravitational forces of the cosmic string fragment.#
Captain's log, stardate 44429.6. We are on a mapping survey near the Cardassian sector. It has been nearly a year since a peace treaty ended the long conflict between the Federation and Cardassia.#
Captain's log, stardate 44431.7. We have established communication with Captain Maxwell, and he has agreed to come on board.#
Captain's log, supplemental. With the Phoenix in close formation, we are proceeding directly to Starbase two one one.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Captain Maxwell has turned his ship over to his First Officer and transported aboard the Enterprise. I have confined him to quarters for the return voyage.#
Captain's log, stardate 44474.5. We have reached Ventax Two and are attempting to contact the Federation science station, which at last report was under siege by an angry mob.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Although I consider this woman's claim upon my ship to be an empty threat, it has further inspired my determination to expose her for the fraud she is.#
Captain's log, stardate 44502.7. Early completion of our mission at Harrakis Five has allowed me to grant extra personal time for many of the crew. This has come as something of a relief, since our recent tight scheduling has prevented pursuit of the leisure activities that are a normal part of life aboard the Enterprise. I expect our journey past the Ngame Nebula to be uneventful, and am personally using the time to fulfill a promise to a colleague.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data continues to maintain that we were unconscious for only thirty seconds, despite Doctor Crusher's evidence to the contrary.#
Captain's log, supplemental. It has become clear that everyone aboard the Enterprise has lost an entire day. As the mystery of what actually occurred during those missing hours continues to deepen, so do my doubts about Commander Data.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Since the newborn has attached itself to the hull, it has been making greater and greater demands on the ship's energy, but we have been able to stabilise our power systems temporarily.#
Captain's log, Stardate 44631.2. We are proceeding through the rim of an uncharted binary star system, where we may have located the USS Brittain. The missing science vessel failed to arrive at its destination and has not been heard from since a distress call twenty nine days ago.#
Captain's log, stardate 44635.8. Four days have passed, but we have made little progress in solving the mystery of the Brittain. I have decided we should return to Starbase two twenty, and to that end, Commander La Forge is rigging the Brittain for towing.#
Captain's log, stardate 44639.9. The Enterprise has now been adrift for a total of ten days. We have sent subspace distress calls, but because of our distant location, we cannot expect a response for at least another two weeks.#
Acting Captain's log, stardate 44642.1. I have assumed command of the Enterprise at the request of Captain Picard. Our situation is deteriorating. Many of the crew are unable to function and our life support systems are beginning to falter.#
Captain's log, stardate 44664.5. We've set a course to intercept Lieutenant Hickman's stolen shuttlecraft, and, hopefully, to discover the whereabouts of the other missing officers.#
Captain's log, stardate 44668.1. Doctor Crusher's research indicates that we have less than an hour before Commander La Forge's transformation becomes irreversible. However, all attempts to locate him on the surface have failed.#
Captain's log, stardate 44704.2. We have arrived at the Argus Array, a remote subspace telescope at the very edge of Federation space. The unmanned structure mysteriously stopped relaying its data nearly two months ago.#
Captain's log, supplemental. An intense energy surge from the alien probe has severely disabled the shuttle's onboard computer. The away team has been transported directly to Sickbay, where Lieutenant Barclay remains under observation.#
Captain's log, stardate 44705.3. The Enterprise has destroyed the alien probe, but now we are left with the difficult task of repairing the Argus Telescope. Failure to do so would represent an incalculable scientific loss.#
Captain's log, stardate 44721.9. After ten days in the company of the Cytherians, the Enterprise has been safely returned to Federation space. We bring back knowledge of their race that will take our scholars decades to examine. Lieutenant Barclay is apparently no worse for his experience.#
Captain's log, stardate 44741.9. We have arrived at Tagus Three where the Enterprise is to serve for host of the Federation Archaeology Council's annual symposium. I look forward to giving tomorrow's keynote address with great anticipation.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Retired Admiral Norah Satie, whose investigation exposed the alien conspiracy against Starfleet Command three years ago, is arriving to assist in our inquiry.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Admiral Thomas Henry, who has worked closely with Norah Satie in the past, has arrived to observe the hearings.#
Captain's log, stardate 44807.5. The Enterprise has arrived at the Praxillus system, where we will conduct Doctor Timicin's helium ignition test.#
Captain's log, stardate 44812.6. We have returned to Kaelon Two, and established contact with Science Minister B'tardat.#
Captain's log, stardate 44823.8. Representatives of the two moons of Peliar Zel have agreed to come on board to meet the new Ambassador Odan.#
Captain's log, stardate 44824.4. Governor Leka and the representatives of the two moons are ready to transport on board. We have learned that they each have troops massed and are ready for combat if this final effort at peace is not successful.#
Captain's log, stardate 44891.6. The Enterprise has been ordered to accompany a special emissary from the Klingon High Council to the Kriosian System, where one of their colonies is fighting for independence.#
Captain's log, stardate 44896.9. We are orbiting Krios, awaiting our first meeting with the Klingon Governor. Commander La Forge has rejoined the Enterprise from Risa.#
Captain's log, stardate 44932.3 The Enterprise is preparing to enter the Mar Oscura, an unexplored dark matter nebula. Commander Data is modifying several new photon torpedoes for an experiment designed to elicit more information about this unusual phenomenon.#
Captain's log, supplemental. This series of unexplained events has now resulted in the death of a crewmember, but it appears that Mister Data may have an explanation.#
Captain's log, stardate 44995.3. We're en route to the Klingon home world, where I will participate in the installation ceremony of Gowron, the next designated Leader of the High Council. This visit should also provide an opportunity for one of my officers to correct a grave injustice.#
Captain's log, stardate 44996.8. My role as Arbiter of Succession has again brought me to the Great Hall of the Klingon High Council.;#
Captain's log, stardate 44998.3. With new-found support, Gowron has chosen to proceed with the installation ceremony. The Enterprise has returned so that I may perform my final duty as Arbiter of Succession.#
Captain's log, stardate 45020.4. We have arrived at Starbase two thirty four, where I have taken the opportunity to make a proposal to Fleet Admiral Shanthi.#
Captain's log, stardate 45021.3. Convincing Starfleet Command to establish a blockade was relatively painless. Implementing that plan is proving more troublesome.#
Captain's log, stardate 45047.2. The Enterprise is en route to the uninhabited El-Adrel system, its location is near the territory occupied by an enigmatic race known as The Children of Tama.#
Captain's log, stardate 45076.3. We have arrived at Lya Station Alpha with survivors from Solarion Four. Admiral Kennelly has rendezvoused to discuss the Bajoran terrorist attack.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are approaching the Valo system on the outskirts of Cardassian territory, where many Bajorans have resettled.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I read about the achievements of the ancient Bajoran civilisation in my fifth grade reader. They were architects and artists, builders and philosophers when humans were not yet standing erect. Now I see how history has rewarded them.#
Captain's log, stardate 45077.8. Keeve Falor has kept his promise and directed us toward the third moon of Valo One, where we will meet tomorrow with the terrorist leader, Orta.#
Captain's log, supplemental. I have become convinced that we are somehow involved in a conspiracy. I am hopeful the purpose behind it will be revealed in the next few hours.#
Captain's log, stardate 45122.3. We have notified Starfleet Command of our intention to pursue and investigate the Crystalline Entity. To that end, we have been joined by Doctor Kila Marr, a xenologist who has made studying the Entity her life's work.#
Captain's log, stardate 45125.7. An away team led by Commander Riker has conducted a thorough survey of the alien ship Kallisko, and has returned to the Enterprise to report.#
Captain's log, stardate 45129.2. We are still in pursuit of the Crystalline Entity. Data and Doctor Marr are prepared to attempt communication with the being when we intercept it. I will admit to some uncertainty about the prospect. It could prove to be a scientific triumph, or a catastrophe.#
Captain's log, stardate 45156.1. Our mission to Mudor Five has been completed and since our next assignment will not begin for several days, we are enjoying a welcome respite from our duties.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are en route to Starbase sixty seven, to undergo repairs. Life aboard the Enterprise is slowly returning to normal.#
Captain's log, stardate 45208.2. Commander Riker has rejoined the Enterprise from Risa, and we are on our way to an uncharted area called the Phoenix Cluster. We're all anticipating this historic first look at the region.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have arrived at the Phoenix Cluster, but it will take us several hours to determine the best possible location from which to conduct our survey. Commander Data's condition remains unchanged with no further indication as to the cause of his collapse.#
Captain's log, stardate 45212.1. We have delivered the Ktarian vessel to Starbase eighty two and are now on a course to rendezvous with the Starship Merrimack, which will transport Wesley Crusher back to Starfleet Academy.#
Captain's log, stardate 45233.1. Our terraforming mission to Doraf One has been cancelled and the Enterprise recalled to Starbase two thirty four. Fleet Admiral Brackett would not discuss the matter on subspace for reasons she said would soon be clear.#
Captain's log, stardate 45236.4. As I study the intelligence reports on Ambassador Spock's disappearance, I cannot help but feel a deeper, more personal concern about this mission, for I know this man through his father. It was barely a year ago that I shared a mind meld with the Vulcan, Sarek. Now we must meet again as I attempt to find an explanation for his son's actions.#
Captain's log, stardate 45240.1. To cross the Neutral Zone, I will require a cloaked ship. To that end, I have set a course for the Klingon home world. After all we did for Gowron during the recent war, I am certain he will be happy to return a favour.#
Captain's log, stardate 45349.1. The Enterprise is on its way to Penthara Four, where a type C asteroid has struck an unpopulated continent. The resulting dust cloud could very well create a phenomenon not unlike the nuclear winters of twenty first century Earth. Commander La Forge has begun work on a plan that would counteract the devastation.#
Captain's log, stardate 45350.3. We have arrived at Penthara Four and can see for ourselves the atmospheric devastation caused by the asteroid impact.#
Captain's log, supplemental. While Doctor Moseley takes La Forge's plan to the leaders of the colony, I find myself weighing the potential consequences of a more philosophical issue.#
Captain's log, stardate 45351.9. Doctor Moseley has met with the colony leaders, who all agree they are willing to take the risk.#
Captain's log, stardate 45376.3. We are approaching the planet Bilana Three, where a new method of propulsion known as the Soliton Wave is being developed. The Enterprise has been asked to participate in one of the first tests of this new technology.#
Captain's log, stardate 45397.3. Two days ago, Starbase five one four lost contact with the research vessel Vico, which was sent to explore the interior of a Black Cluster. We are en route to investigate.#
Captain's log, supplemental. A young boy, shielded from our initial sensor scans, has been discovered pinned beneath a fallen beam. The degree of damage to the Vico is making our rescue attempt difficult.#
Captain's log, supplemental. A thorough search of the Vico has revealed no additional survivors. We have begun the process of counselling the boy with regard to the tragedy.#
Captain's log, stardate 45429.3. While on a mapping survey, we are conveying a delegation of Ullians to Kaldra Four. These telepathic historians conduct their research by retrieving long-forgotten memories.#
Captain's log, stardate 45430.9. Counsellor Troi has fallen into a deep coma. After a thorough examination, Doctor Crusher has been unable to find signs of illness or infection.#
Captain's log, stardate 45433.2. We have set a course for Starbase four forty, where the Ullians will disembark and return home.#
Captain's log, stardate 45435.8. Doctor Crusher and Commander Riker regained consciousness while we were en route to the Ullian home world. The slow process of their recovery has begun.#
Captain's log, stardate 45470.1. The Enterprise has been diverted to the Moab sector to track a stellar core fragment of a disintegrated neutron star. Our science teams have been asked to monitor the planetary disruptions it may cause.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and Hannah Bates have spent three days trying to find a way to adjust the path of the core fragment. If they do not succeed in the next forty eight hours, we will need to begin evacuation.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has moved to a parallel course with the core fragment. We must adjust its trajectory by a minimum of one point two degrees to ensure the colony's safety.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The stellar core fragment has passed safely out of the Moab system. The colony was shaken by powerful temblors, but fortunately there were no injuries and only minor damage was reported.#
Captain's log, stardate 45494.2. We're investigating a series of subspace signals that may indicate intelligent life in the Epsilon Silar System. We are within sensor range.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We are on a course to Starbase three zero one. Doctor Crusher has been working steadily, and has restored the memories of most of the crew.#
Captain's log, stardate 45571.2. We are going into orbit around an unexplored M-class moon of Mab-Bu Six. Though the moon was reported to be uninhabited, we have picked up a weak distress call.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Following an aborted attempt to take control of the Bridge, Counsellor Troi, Mister Data, and Chief O'Brien have seized Ten Forward.#
Captain's log, stardate 45572.1. Doctor Crusher has examined Troi, Data and O'Brien. There seem to be no residual effects from their experience.#
Captain's log, stardate 45587.3. Lieutenant Worf has been removed from active duty following a severe injury. Although a neuro-specialist has arrived, Doctor Crusher believes his paralysis may be permanent.#
Captain's log, stardate 45614.6. We have been contacted by an androgynous race called the J'naii to investigate the mysterious disappearance of one of their shuttlecraft.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The sudden disappearance of our probe suggests that we may have found the first instance of what is called null space, an anomaly which until now had been only theoretical. Commander Riker has been working around the clock with a team of J'naii specialists to formalise this hypothesis.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Riker and the J'naii pilot have set out to chart the null space pocket. If they are successful, we can then proceed with a rescue attempt.#
Captain's log, stardate 45620.4. In the hope that a detailed map of null space will prevent the loss of other ships, we remain in orbit of J'naii, charting the anomaly.#
Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We're the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.#
Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.#
Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.#
Captain's log, stardate 45652.1. The Enterprise has entered an area of space known as the Typhon Expanse. We are the first Starfleet vessel to chart this unexplored region.#
Captain's log, stardate 45703.9. We are en route to Earth, where it will be my pleasant duty to deliver this year's commencement address at Starfleet Academy. I'm also looking forward to seeing Wesley Crusher again. His flight team will perform a demonstration near Saturn that will be transmitted to the graduation ceremonies.#
Captain's log, stardate 45733.6. Temporary repairs to the ship have been completed. Our attention now turns to matters of a more festive nature.#
Captain's log, stardate 45761.3. In an effort to bring an end to their centuries-long war, Krios and Valt Minor have agreed to a Ceremony of Reconciliation, to be held aboard the Enterprise at a point midway between their two systems.#
Captain's log, stardate 45766.1. We have reached the designated coordinates for the conference and await the arrival of Chancellor Alrik.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Ferengi have been dispatched via shuttle to Starbase one one seven. What charges will be brought against them depends on whether or not Ambassador Briam recovers.#
Captain's log, stardate 45852.1. The Enterprise has arrived at FGC four seven, a nebula which has formed around a neutron star. We are eager to investigate this unique formation.#
Captain's log, stardate 45854.2. The Enterprise is charting six star systems that make up the Argolis cluster, an area being considered for colonisation.#
Captain's log, stardate 45944.1. Following a magnetic wave survey of the Parvenium Sector, we've detected an object which we cannot immediately identify.#
Captain's log, stardate 45959.1. The Enterprise has been recalled to sector zero zero one on a priority mission. All we've been told is that evidence has been discovered indicating the presence of extraterrestrials on Earth five centuries ago.#
Captain's log, stardate 45960.2. We have transported the materials discovered in the cavern back to the ship for analysis. I wish I could be as dispassionate about the implications as my second officer.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Close range sensor analysis has yielded no further trace of Commander Data. Despite the emotional repercussions among my crew, I must move this mission forward.#
Captain's log, stardate 45965.3. An away team has beamed to the surface with a device which may enable them to phase-shift into the alien world.#
Captain's log, stardate 46001.3. Everyone who should be in the nineteenth century is safely there, and those who should be in the twenty fourth are here. Mister Data has been restored to us, head and all, and Samuel Clemens will write the books he was to have written after our encounter.#
Captain's log, stardate 46043.6. The reprogrammed biofilter was effective in removing the alien microbes from Mister Barclay and the four crewmembers. The microbes have been returned to the plasma streamer.#
Captain's log, stardate 46071.6. We have been called to the aid of a transport ship, which has been attacked near Rekag-Seronia. Hostilities between the two factions on that planet have intensified recently, threatening an important Federation shipping route.#
Captain's log, stardate 46073.6. We have arrived without incident at Rekag-Seronia, where two members of Ambassador Alkar's delegation have been waiting. They have joined us to report on the situation in the capital city.#
Captain's log, stardate 46125.3. Starfleet has dispatched two science vessels to study the Dyson Sphere while we proceed to Starbase fifty five.#
Captain's log, stardate 46154.2. The Enterprise has entered the Amargosa Diaspora, an unusually dense globular cluster. We are faced with the daunting task of charting this vast region.#
Captain's log, stardate 46191.2. The tetryon emissions in cargo bay four have ceased, and there have been no further indications of alien intrusions. All Enterprise crewmembers are safe and accounted for. But we are still left with some unanswered questions.#
Captain's log, stardate 46192.3. We have arrived at Starbase one one two and are loading relief supplies destined for Tagra Four, an ecologically devastated planet in the Argolis Cluster. We have also taken on a rather unusual passenger.#
Captain's log, stardate 46193.8. We have arrived at Tagra Four and have begun delivering supplies. In the meantime, I am faced with a crisis of a different nature.#
Captain's log, stardate 46235.7 Ensign Ro, Keiko O'Brien, Guinan and I are returning to the Enterprise after a fascinating visit to the planet Marlonia.#
Captain's log, stardate 46271.5. The Enterprise has entered orbit of Deinonychus Seven, but our scheduled rendezvous with the supply ship Biko has been delayed for another forty eight hours. In the meantime, many members of the crew are taking advantage of the delay to pursue their own projects, myself included.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and Mister Data believe they have found the cause of the mysterious malfunctions which have been plaguing the ship.#
Captain's log, stardate 46278.3. Both Commander Data and the ship's computer have been restored to normal operation. Our rendezvous with the supply ship Biko has proceeded as planned.#
Captain's log, stardate 46307.2. We have just come into orbit of Tyrus Seven A to monitor progress on the Tyran particle fountain, a radically new mining technology. So far the project has been fraught with problems, and is well behind schedule. Mister La Forge has been assigned to evaluate the situation.#
Captain's log, stardate 46315.2. Repairs to the particle fountain seem to have succeeded and it is now functioning smoothly. Doctor Farallon is coming aboard to demonstrate the device that carried out the repairs.#
Captain's log, stardate 46316.6. I have summoned the senior staff in order to discuss Commander Data's theory that the exocomps are a life form. Doctor Farallon has attended only reluctantly.#
Captain's log, stardate 46317.8. At Doctor Farallon's request, I have agreed to tour the station and assess the situation personally. I must decide soon whether it is in Starfleet's best interest to recommend the particle fountain as a reliable technology.#
Captain's log, stardate 46357.4. We have rendezvoused with the starship Cairo near the Cardassian border for an urgent meeting with Vice Admiral Nechayev.#
Captain's log, stardate 46358.2. The Enterprise is on course for a rendezvous with the Cardassian ship Reklar. Fortunately, I still have time to prepare the ship and crew for the task ahead.#
Captain's log, stardate 46360.8. The negotiations with the Cardassians have made little progress. I believe a military confrontation may be unavoidable.#
Captain's log, stardate 46424.1. The Enterprise has arrived at the Detrian system to observe a unique celestial event the collision of two planets.#
Captain's log, stardate 46461.3. We have arrived at a communication relay station near the Klingon border, where we are scheduled to deliver supplies. However, the station has not responded to repeated hails.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Qu'Vat has arrived with Commander Morag. We are preparing to question him regarding his involvement in the murder of Lieutenant Rocha.#
Captain's log, stardate 46519.1. We have arrived at Research Station seventy five to take on a rather unique passenger, one whose homecoming will undoubtedly be difficult.#
Captain's log, stardate 46578.4. The Enterprise has arrived at Station Deep Space Nine, to assist in the reconstruction of the Bajoran aqueduct systems damaged during the Cardassian occupation.#
Captain's log, stardate 46759.2. The Yridian vessel Lieutenant Worf boarded at Deep Space Nine has failed to arrive for our scheduled rendezvous. It is now twelve hours overdue.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Our search for Lieutenant Worf was cut short when we received a cryptic message from him requesting a rendezvous with a Romulan vessel. He has informed us we will be taking on passengers.#
Captain's log, stardate 46682.4. The Enterprise is docked at the Remmler Array, where it will undergo a routine procedure to eliminate accumulated baryon particles. In preparation for the sweep, we are evacuating the ship.#
Captain's log, stardate 46693.1. We have entered the Bersallis star system and are making preparations to evacuate the Federation outpost on the third planet.#
Captain's log, stardate 46697.2. Although we succeeded in rescuing all six hundred forty three Bersallin colonists we lost eight crewmembers. Let the record show that they gave their lives in the performance of their duty.#
Captain's log, Stardate 46731.5. We are in the midst of the Volterra nebula, a stellar nursery. Our three week mission is a routine analysis of several dozen protostars in various stages of development.#
Captain's log, supplemental. It's been over thirty years since I last saw my archaeology professor. His presence has taken me back to a time when I had considered a very different career.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have completed our mission in the nebula and are en route to a diplomatic conference on Atalia Seven. I must admit I've lost my enthusiasm for those proceedings.#
Captain's log, supplemental. It seems that we have not one, but two competitors in our attempt to complete Professor Galen's puzzle. I have prevailed upon the Cardassian and Klingon captains to meet with me.#
Captain's log, stardate 46735.2. Our frequent use of high warp over the last few days has overextended the propulsion systems. We are finishing minor repairs before returning to Federation territory.#
Captain's log, stardate 46778.1. Commander Riker has returned safely from his mission to Tilonus Four. Doctor Crusher has repaired the damage to his long-term memory.#
Captain's log, stardate 46852.2. The Enterprise is to proceed directly to the planet Boreth to take aboard a very unusual guest.#
Captain's log, stardate 46915.2. The Enterprise is orbiting Nervala Four, waiting for an opportunity to retrieve scientific data left there by Starfleet researchers when they were forced to evacuate eight years ago.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The third transport window has opened and the away team is making their final attempt at retrieving the database.#
Captain's log, stardate 46920.1. We have retrieved the database from Nervala station and are headed for our rendezvous with the Gandhi.#
Captain's log, stardate 46944.2. Commander Data, Mister La Forge, Counsellor Troi and I are en route to the Enterprise, after attending a three day conference on the psychological effects of long-term deep-space assignments.#
Captain's log, supplemental. After placing the modified tricorder on the Romulan ship, we have returned to the Enterprise.#
Captain's log, stardate 46945.3. We successfully evacuated the crew of the Romulan ship, and we're on course to the Neutral Zone to bring them home.#
Captain's log, stardate 46982.1. Because of his unusual behaviour on the planet surface, Commander Data has asked to be temporarily relieved of duty. Unfortunately, this means he will not be able to help us investigate a disturbing new change in the behaviour of the Borg.#
Captain's log, stardate 46984.6. No additional Borg attacks have been reported in the past two days. However, Starfleet has dispatched Admiral Nechayev to take command in this sector in preparation for a possible Borg invasion.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have been on patrol for sixteen hours, and there are no reports of further Borg activity. But tensions continue to run high on the colonies and outposts in this sector.#
Acting Captain's log, supplemental. The skeleton crew left on board the Enterprise is unable to help in the search for Commander Data. The planet's unusual EM field is interfering with the ship's sensors, severely limiting their effectiveness.#
Captain's log, stardate 47025.4. We have returned to Federation Space and are en route to Starbase two nine five. Mister La Forge remains under Doctor Crusher's care.#
Captain's log, stardate 47215.5. We are responding to a distress call from the science vessel Raman, which is apparently trapped inside the turbulent atmosphere of an unusual gas giant planet. We will use an experimental interface probe in our attempt to rescue it.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have succeeded in disengaging Mister La Forge from the interface and are en route to Starbase four nine five.#
Acting Captain's log, stardate 47135.2. Doctor Crusher has positively identified Captain Picard's DNA. There's no doubt now that he's dead.#
Acting Captain's log, stardate 47160.1. The Enterprise is entering the Hyralan Sector, which I believe to be the next destination of the mercenary ship.#
Captain's log, stardate 47169.2. Security Minister Satok has taken Tallera into custody and begun a search for the rest of the isolationists.#
Captain's log, stardate 47225.7. Commander La Forge has completed the installation of our new warp core. We are preparing to test its capabilities.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The creatures infesting the Enterprise have been completely eliminated. We believe the infestation originated within the warp core we obtained on Starbase eighty four.#
Captain's log, stardate 47254.1. A delegation of the Cairn have just come on board. This telepathic species has no concept of spoken language, and is being instructed in its use by an old friend.#
Captain's log, stardate 47304.2. The Enterprise has arrived at Kesprytt Three in order to evaluate an unusual request on the part of the Kes for associate membership in the Federation.#
Captain's log, Stardate 47310.2. We're investigating the disappearance of the Medical Transport Fleming somewhere in the Hekaras Corridor. Our search is complicated by the unique properties of this particular region of space.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have traced the Fleming's most likely course. It now appears that the vessel may have come to an unfortunate end.#
Captain's log, stardate 47314.5. We have been continuing our research, while the Federation Council studies our preliminary reports on the subspace rift. It now appears certain that what we've seen here will have repercussions for many years to come.#
Captain's log, stardate 47410.2. The Atrean government has requested assistance in averting a natural disaster. Two of their geologists have come aboard, one of whom is a human who has been living on Atrea Four.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The infusion of plasma into the core of Atrea Four has been accomplished. The core should remain molten for several hundred years.#
Captain's log, stardate 47457.1. We have been trapped inside the asteroid for over eight hours. Mister Data and Commander La Forge inform me that they are nearly ready to engage the cloak.#
Captain's log, stardate 47423.9. We have arrived at Boraal Two in response to an emergency distress call from Lieutenant Worf's foster brother, Nikolai Rozhenko. He has been stationed on the planet as a cultural observer.#
Captain's log, stardate 47427.2. The Boraalans have safely reached the site of what will eventually become their new village. None of them suspects they ever left their planet. However, our success has come at a high price.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander La Forge and Mister Data have recovered from their exposure to the anaphasic energy, but I'm afraid Doctor Crusher's recovery will be of a more personal nature.#
Captain's log, stardate 47566.7. We have reached the coordinates in Federation space where Ensign Sito's escape pod was to have rendezvoused with us. However, we have been waiting for over thirty hours and as yet there is no sign of her.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have intercepted a Cardassian report stating that a Bajoran prisoner escaped her captor and was killed in an evacuation pod as she tried to leave Cardassian space.#
Captain's log, stardate 47615.2. We have encountered a rogue comet in sector one one five six. It is not native to this region of space, and there is no previous record of this object on any Federation charts.#
Captain's log, stardate 47618.4. Commander La Forge has managed to disable the alien transformation programme. Starfleet has dispatched an archaeological team to study the archive further.#
Captain's log, stardate 47623.2. We've arrived at Starbase three twenty eight on schedule. After taking aboard medical supplies, we will depart for Barson Two.#
Captain's log, stardate 47653.2. We're performing field tests of our new tactical systems and weapon upgrades. Mister Worf is supervising the exercises.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data and I have recovered the stray torpedo after a three day search. We are enroute back to the Enterprise.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Commander Data has succeeded in returning the crew to normal. Doctor Crusher has determined that the synthetic T-cell she used to cure Mister Barclay's Urodelan flu initiated the intron virus which swept through the ship.#
Captain's log, stardate 47751.2. The Enterprise has arrived at Starbase three one zero for a meeting with Fleet Admiral Necheyev. This visit will also give us the opportunity to pick up a member of the family.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise has arrived at Dorvan Five and I have spoken to the Leader of the Tribal Council. He has agreed to meet with us this afternoon to discuss the situation.#
Captain's log, stardate 47755.3. The Enterprise is preparing to leave Dorvan Five, but former cadet Wesley Crusher will be staying behind.#
Captain's log, stardate 47829.1. We've been in the Xendi Kabu system for over three hours, and still no sign of Bok.#
Captain's log, stardate 47831.8. At Jason's request, the Enterprise has returned to Camor Five.#
Captain's log, stardate 47869.2. After weathering an unexpected magnascopic storm in the Mekorda Sector, we are continuing our search for new Federation colony sites.#
Captain's log, supplemental. The Enterprise is back under our control. All traces of the emergent intelligence are gone and the object it created has disappeared into space.#
Captain's log, stardate 47941.7. The Enterprise is en route to a briefing on the situation in the Demilitarised Zone along the Cardassian border. Meanwhile, we're celebrating the return of an old friend.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Gul Evek and his crew have left the Enterprise, and we have proceeded to our rendezvous with Admiral Nechayev.#
Captain's log, stardate 47943.2. It has been over a week since Lieutenant Ro left the Enterprise. We have yet to receive any communication from her.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Having earned the Maquis' trust with her raid on the Enterprise, Lieutenant Ro has been given access to a ship and allowed to leave the settlement by herself.#
Captain's log, supplemental. We have received word from Commander Riker and Lieutenant Ro that the Maquis will be attacking the convoy as planned. Our ships have taken up position in the Hugora Nebula to wait for them.#
Captain's log, supplemental. Starfleet Command reports no unusual activity along the Neutral Zone, and there is no sign of a temporal anomaly. It would appear that I am the only member of the crew to retain any knowledge of the events I experienced.#
