Episode Number: 420
The Voyager Transcripts - Living Witness
Living Witness
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 29 April 1998
[Pseudo Ready room]
(We know this is not real, because Janeway's hair is swept back and she is wearing a black roll-neck top beneath her uniform, and black leather gloves. Very sinister. Her words are also very non-Janeway and there is no comm. badge.)
pJANEWAY: When diplomacy fails there's only one alternative. Violence. Force must be applied without apology. It's the Starfleet way. 
DALETH: Then our philosophies are in agreement. Will you help us? 
pJANEWAY: You're asking me to fight your war, destroy your enemy. 
DALETH: I'm asking you to intimidate the Kyrians with your technology. Help me capture their leader. This ship has superior firepower. He won't risk a conflict with you. 
pJANEWAY: We risk life and limb so your people can annex Kyrian land. Sounds like a good deal for you. What do we get? 
DALETH: A way home. 
pJANEWAY: You know more about Voyager than you've let on. 
DALETH: Your reputation in this quadrant precedes you. That's why we sought you out. 
pJANEWAY: I'm listening. 
DALETH: There's a cyclic wormhole five days journey from here. We know where it is, and we can help you stabilise it. 
pJANEWAY: If you're lying. 
DALETH: How far do you have to go? Sixty thousand light years? 
pJANEWAY: I want all tactical data regarding your little war. Kyrian defences, position of your own forces, everything. 
DALETH: You'll have it within the hour. 
[Pseudo Bridge]
(A Kazon walks through with a phaser rifle. Neelix is in uniform at Tactical.)
pNEELIX: Eight Kyrian fighter ships approaching. 
pJANEWAY: Arm the assault probes. Fire at will. Hail them. 
pTUVOK: Channel open. 
pJANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the warship Voyager. Break off your attack, or I'll destroy you. 
pTUVOK: They are not responding. 
pPARIS: They're returning fire. Shields are holding. 
pJANEWAY: Chakotay, any luck tracking down their leader? 
(Chakotay has a different tattoo, one that extends all down the left side of his face. Every pronounces his name without the emphasis on the middle syllable.)
pCHAKOTAY: Not yet. We think Tedran has go-ne into hiding. 
pJANEWAY: I thought he might. We'll have to flush him out. 
DALETH: What do you suggest? 
pJANEWAY: Biogenic weapons. We'll infect the most populated Kyrian territories. The Doctor's nearly done working on the weapon. 
DALETH: Our conflict is with Tedran himself, not his people. They're innocent.
pJANEWAY: The best way to bring down a ruler is to make his people suffer. 
DALETH: Captain
pJANEWAY: This is no time for half-measures. You wanted victory. You're going to get it. Bridge to Sickbay. Status? 
[Pseudo Sickbay]
(This EMH is an android, like Data.)
pEMH: We have established a datalink between my neural net and the phaser array. I am reconfiguring the beam to carry a bio-agent into the planet's atmosphere 
pJANEWAY [OC]: When will it be ready? 
pEMH: It is ready now, Captain. 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pTUVOK: Phasers are online. 
pJANEWAY: Target the first city. And fire.
(The warship Voyager is bristling with gun turrets. The image freezes.)  
[Museum]
QUARREN: The warship Voyager. One of the most powerful vessels of its time. Armed with photonic torpedoes and particle weapons, this ship of destruction could wipe out an entire civilisation within hours. On this particular day in history, we were lucky. The death toll could have been much worse. By the time Voyager targeted our major cities, Tedran had already begun an evacuation. Thousands of lives were saved. Unfortunately, it was only the beginning of Captain Janeway's onslaught. As you'll see, her actions would have a lasting effect on our world. Even today, seven hundred years later, we are still feeling the impact of the Voyager encounter. Before we continue the simulation, I'd like to answer any questions you might have. 
KYRIAN VISITOR: I'm curious about Voyager itself. How many people were on board? 
QUARREN: We believe they had a complement of over three hundred soldiers. 
KYRIAN VISITOR: Did they attack other worlds as well? 
QUARREN: Well, we aren't certain. Records of Voyager's travels through our quadrant are incomplete, but it's safe to assume that they interfered with many other cultures, yes. 
KYRIAN VISITOR: Tell us more about the Borg drones they kept on the ship. 
QUARREN: Voyager had many weapons at their disposal, including species they'd assimilated along the way. Borg, Talaxian, Kazon. They were captured and made to work as part of Voyager's fighting force. Let's resume the simulation, and you can see for yourself. It's a few hours after the initial bombardment. Janeway and her squadron are on the bridge mounting their assault. Now, what you are about to see is graphic and unsettling. 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pJANEWAY: Status. Status! 
pNEELIX: Approximately three thousand Kyrians dead. 
pJANEWAY: That's it? 
pTUVOK: The bio-agent is still dispersing through the atmosphere. The fatality rate will be three hundred thousand soon enough. 
pJANEWAY: How soon? 
pTUVOK: Best guess, one hour. 
pJANEWAY: Why do you always keep me waiting, Tuvok? 
pTUVOK: My apologies. Preparing to fire again. 
pJANEWAY: Double the yield, 
DALETH: Captain, don't you think that's excessive? 
pJANEWAY: You picked a bad time to have second thoughts, Ambassador. 
DALETH: I want them defeated but, but this is genocide! 
pJANEWAY: Defeat? Genocide? Why quibble with semantics? 
DALETH: This wasn't our agreement. 
pJANEWAY: We're going to defeat the Kyrians, and you're going to keep up your end of the bargain. 
(Whumph!)
pJANEWAY: Ensign, confine this gentleman to the brig. I'll let you know when it's over. 
(The Kazon takes Daleth away.)
pPARIS: Three more Kyrian vessels approaching. 
pJANEWAY: Evade them. 
pPARIS: Aye, aye, sir. 
[Pseudo Interrogation Room]
(Chakotay and Kim are hitting a Kyrian in what used to be the Medical lab.)
pCHAKOTAY: The location. 
pKIM: Look, I can keep this up all day. Tell the Commander what he wants to know. Maybe I can't keep this up all day. 
pCHAKOTAY: I'm a man of peace. My native people are enlightened, non-violent, much like your own. I'm saddened that this has happened to you. If we can work together maybe we can end this conflict. 
pKIM: Stand aside, Chakotay. Let me hit him. 
pEMH: That hyperspanner would cause an unacceptable level of damage. I remind you, he must still be able to speak. 
pKIM: What do you have in mind? 
pEMH: This neural solvent. A clean and efficient inducer of pain. Far more effective than your crude attempts at persuasion. 
(The evil EMH injects the Kyrian.)
pEMH: No doubt you are experiencing a tingling sensation behind your eyes. The chemical is dissolving your optic nerves. 
pCHAKOTAY: I'll ask you again. Where is Tedran? 
pEMH: The pain will increase exponentially until your cerebral cortex begins to liquefy. I can reverse the process, if ordered to do so. 
pCHAKOTAY: And I want to give that order. But you have to tell me. Where is Tedran? 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pCHAKOTAY: He's here, at these coordinates. 
pJANEWAY: Assuming our prisoner told you the truth. 
pCHAKOTAY: Oh, believe me, he was very cooperative at the end. 
pJANEWAY: Neelix?
pNEELIX: I'm reading a fortified compound one point six kilometres below the surface. 
pJANEWAY: Chakotay, you and Tuvok take an assault team and find Tedran. Make sure he's escorted safely to Voyager. 
pCHAKOTAY: Yes, sir. 
(Whump!)
pJANEWAY: What now? 
pPARIS: Intruders. Four Kyrians just beamed into the engine room. 
pJANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. Respond. 
pNEELIX: They've erected forcefields. Our soldiers can't get in. 
pJANEWAY: They've left me no choice. Computer, initiate the Borg activation sequence. 
COMPUTER: Sequence in progress.
(This computer has a male voice.) 
[Pseudo Cargo Bay two]
(A full Borg wakes in an alcove.)
pJANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Seven of Nine. 
pSEVEN: State your instructions. 
pJANEWAY [OC]: A group of Kyrians 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pJANEWAY: Is in the Engine Room. Stop them. 
[Pseudo Cargo Bay two]
pSEVEN: We understand. 
(Pseudo Seven activates three more Borg drones.)
[Pseudo Engineering]
(They beam into Engineering and deal with the Kyrians very quickly.)
pSEVEN: Resistance is futile. 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pSEVEN [OC]: Seven of Nine to the bridge. The Kyrian threat has been neutralised. 
pJANEWAY: Acknowledged. 
pSEVEN [OC]: Two of the Kyrians are still alive. What shall we do with them? 
pJANEWAY: Well, you've been wanting to expand your fighting force. Assimilate them. 
[Pseudo Engineering]
pSEVEN: We understand. 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pKIM: I just received word from the attack team. 
pJANEWAY: Good news, Lieutenant? 
pKIM: Very. They've captured Tedran and one of his aides. They're heading back to Voyager. 
pJANEWAY: Take them to chamber nineteen and get the Vaskan ambassador. This is one negotiation he won't want to miss. 
[Pseudo Chamber Nineteen]
(An empty mess hall. An elegant man and woman in long robes are there, along with the pseudo EMH and Daleth.)
pJANEWAY: Welcome aboard. 
TEDRAN: I appreciate your hospitality. Are all your guests treated so well? 
pJANEWAY: It's not every day that we receive such an important visitor. The great Tedran. A man of wisdom and peace. A servant of his people. Well, your people need you now more than ever. 
TEDRAN: State your demands. 
pJANEWAY: Tell your forces to stand down, and I'll call off my attack. 
TEDRAN: I understand what the Vaskans want. More of our territory, more resources. But what do you want, Captain? Why are you doing this to us? 
pJANEWAY: He's offered my crew a way home. 
TEDRAN: To reach your home, you would destroy ours? 
pJANEWAY: That's right. And you'd do the same in my position. 
TEDRAN: No, I would not. 
pJANEWAY: Spoken like a true martyr. You're very enlightened. But are you so proud that you'd let your people die before you'd humble yourself? 
(Tedran and his lady are pushed to their knees.) 
pJANEWAY: 
Tell them to surrender. 
TEDRAN: (to Daleth) You have shamed us all. We could've ended this on our own, peacefully, without her. 
pJANEWAY: Surrender. 
TEDRAN: No. 
(Pseudo Janeway takes a phaser rifle and shoots the woman in the back.)
TEDRAN: We will prevail. 
(She kills Tedran, too.)
pJANEWAY: Don't look so shocked, Ambassador. This is what you wanted, isn't it? 
[Museum]
QUARREN: The ensuing conflict was brief but brutal. Two million Kyrians slaughtered within days. The warship Voyager continued on its way, leaving the Kyrian dynasty in ruins. The Vaskan leaders proceeded to occupy our lands, forcing my people into subservience. It took centuries for us to undo the damage that Captain Janeway had done, and the Kyrian struggle for equality is far from over. This simulation and this museum are a testament to that struggle. I hope you found your experience here worthwhile. If you'd like to learn more about Voyager and its role in the history of our planet, I suggest you explore the rest of this exhibit. Thank you for your time. 
(One of the exhibits is a photon torpedo case clearly labelled U.S.S. Voyager. Later, a Vaskan man has his fingers in the torpedo's controls.)
QUARREN: Please, feel free to test the simulators. I wouldn't touch that if I were you. One of the Voyager's torpedoes. Twenty five isoton yield. It could destroy an entire city within seconds. It's been inactive for centuries but you never know. I'm only teasing, but please be careful. If we damage any of these relics they can never be replaced. The history of our people should be respected. 
VASKAN VISITOR: I have a question about that history.
QUARREN: Please. 
VASKAN VISITOR: How can you prove that it's true? 
QUARREN: Take a closer look. The evidence is all around you. 
VASKAN VISITOR: Some musty fossils and a recreation? That doesn't prove anything. 
QUARREN: I disagree. 
VASKAN VISITOR: You're trying to blame the Vaskans for all your troubles the way you always do. I don't have a problem with your species. I have Kyrian friends. But I don't appreciate seeing my people being portrayed as villains in your little simulation, and I certainly don't want your history taught to my children. 
QUARREN: You'd better get used to the idea, because we've just uncovered an artefact that's going to confirm everything you've seen here. Three weeks ago our research team found a data storage device buried nine metres beneath the ruins at Kesef. I've confirmed that it came from Voyager. 
VASKAN VISITOR: Another fossil. 
QUARREN: The device contains active data. Possibly crew logs, even Captain Janeway's personal almanac. In the next few days, we could be hearing Voyager's version of these events in their own words. 
VASKAN VISITOR: And what if those words tell a different story? What then? 
QUARREN: We will change our views accordingly. 
VASKAN VISITOR: I'm sure you will.
(The Vaskan leaves.)
QUARREN: I apologise. Please, enjoy the rest of your visit. 
[Museum - night]
QUARREN: Activate recreation, the Voyager Encounter. Display Engine Room.
(Quarren goes into the recreation with a box.) 
[Pseudo Engineering]
(He sits at a console and presses his comm. badge.)
QUARREN: Begin dictation. I'm resuming work on artefact two seven one, the Voyager data storage device. I've decided to try using period tools from the simulation itself. With any luck, they'll be more compatible. Hmm. There's far more data here than I expected. Seems more like a programme of some sort. Yes. Yes, it's an optronic datastream. A hologram. 
(He gets the hologram to flicker into existence.)
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. Please state the nature of the medical emergency. 
QUARREN: I recognise you. You're Voyager's doctor. 
EMH: What am I doing in Engineering? Where's my mobile emitter? 
QUARREN: You're not an android. 
EMH: Of course not. What are you talking about? A Kyrian. Doctor to the bridge, intruder alert. Security to Engineering. 
(The EMH tries using a console.)
QUARREN: You won't have much luck with that. Nothing in here is real. It's a simulation. 
EMH: A holodeck? 
QUARREN: No. You're in the Museum of Kyrian Heritage. 
EMH: You've stolen my programme. How? 
QUARREN: Please, let me try to explain. 
EMH: Try quickly. 
QUARREN: You are a hologram. 
EMH: That I know. 
QUARREN: I just discovered your programme inside this data storage device. 
EMH: That's the EMH backup module. One of your attack parties must have taken it from Sickbay. 
QUARREN: Actually, we found it at the ruins at Kesef. I know this will be difficult for you to accept, but a great deal of time has passed since Voyager encountered the Kyrians. 
EMH: How much time? 
QUARREN: Seven hundred years, give or take a decade. We're not certain. 
EMH: I don't believe you. 
QUARREN: Think about it. When your programme is inactive, a moment or a millennium are the same to you. 
EMH: Seven hundred years? What about my ship? What happened to my crew? 
QUARREN: No one knows. It's safe to say they're long dead. 
EMH: And I'm some sort of fossil? 
QUARREN: No, not a fossil. A witness. A living witness to history. There's so much we don't know about what happened. But you saw it, you lived through those times. You helped to shape them. Doctor, you could be the most important discovery of all time. 
EMH: No. This is impossible. 
QUARREN: Doctor. 
EMH: I don't believe you! 
QUARREN: Doctor!
(The EMH runs out of the simulation.)
[Museum]
EMH: What's going to happen to me now? Will you put me on display? The holographic Rip van Winkle? 
QUARREN: I'm not sure. 
EMH: I want to try to contact Starfleet, if there still is a Starfleet. 
QUARREN: That will have to wait. 
EMH: Wait for what? 
QUARREN: There are other issues to be resolved. 
EMH: What kind of issues? 
QUARREN: You're the Voyager doctor. A lot of people are going to have questions. On our world, artificial lifeforms are considered sentient and responsible for their actions. You might have to face charges. 
EMH: Charges? 
QUARREN: For your crimes. You designed the bio-weapons that killed eight million Kyrians. 
EMH: I did nothing of the sort. 
QUARREN: All of our evidence shows that you were a war criminal. 
EMH: Evidence? What evidence? Like this, for example? Triple-armoured hull? Thirty torpedo tubes? Twenty five phaser banks? This isn't what our ship looked like. 
QUARREN: We reconstructed it from a partial schematic found in the Cyrik ocean, which was badly damaged by corrosion. We were bound to get a few details wrong. 
EMH: Voyager wasn't a warship. We were explorers. 
QUARREN: Yes, I know. Trying to get home, to Mars. 
EMH: Earth! You see, you couldn't even get that right. This is a nightmare. What if I'm found guilty? What's going to happen to me? 
QUARREN: That's up to the Arbiters, but I imagine the penalty would be severe. Your programme could be de-compiled. 
EMH: You've got to believe me. To you, this may be ancient history. To me, it's yesterday. You called me a living witness. Well, at least give me the chance to set the record straight. I want to see your version of what happened. 
[Pseudo Briefing room]
pPARIS: We've already drained two phaser banks, and he hasn't hit anything. 
pTUVOK: If you looked at your console once in a while instead of chasing the female ensigns, you'd see otherwise. 
pKIM: Tom's right. This war was supposed to be over in five minutes. 
pCHAKOTAY: You have a better idea, Lieutenant? 
pPARIS: As a matter of fact I do. Fighter shuttles. A direct assault. 
pNEELIX: Led by you? Good luck. 
pPARIS: Watch your mouth, hedgehog. 
pCHAKOTAY: I haven't heard a single good idea. 
pPARIS: Well, then propose something, First Officer. Earn your rank for once.
(The EMH watches open-mouthed as pseudo Chakotay and pseudo Paris fight.) 
pJANEWAY: Gentlemen. Gentlemen! 
(Pseudo Janeway shoots her hand phaser at a wall screen. The fight stops.)
pJANEWAY: Save it for the holodeck. We've got a war to fight. We've only been attacking the Kyrian military installations. A mistake. We should target the general population. 
pEMH: Excellent idea, Captain. I have examined the Kyrian genome and they would be vulnerable to any number of biological weapons. 
pJANEWAY: How soon could you have one ready? 
pEMH: Within the hour. 
pJANEWAY: Dismissed. 
EMH: Pure fiction. This is absurd. 
QUARREN: Halt recreation. This is a reasonable extrapolation from historic record. But if you'd like to point out any inconsistencies. 
EMH: Inconsistencies? I don't know where to begin. Granted, this looks like the briefing room but these aren't the people I knew. No one behaved like this. Well, aside from Mister Paris. We weren't at each other's throats. We didn't talk about how to destroy planets. We helped people. We were an enlightened crew. 
QUARREN: Are you denying these events took place? 
EMH: Yes. 
QUARREN: Are you saying you never got involved with the conflict between my people and the Vaskans? 
EMH: Yes! Well, no, we did get involved, but it was nothing like this. 
QUARREN: Elaborate. 
EMH: There was a meeting in this room, but it wasn't about battle tactics. It was about a dilemma we were facing. We had negotiated a trade agreement with the Vaskans. We were dealing with a representative, Ambassador 
QUARREN: Ambassador Daleth. 
EMH: Daleth. Exactly. Everything was going according to plan until we were attacked. By your people, the Kyrians. They'd picked that moment to start a war and we were caught in the middle. 
QUARREN: The Kyrians were the aggressors? No, no. That can't be right. 
EMH: Captain Janeway called this meeting to figure out how we could extricate ourselves from the conflict and still maintain the trade agreement with the Vaskans. But we weren't on their side, and we certainly never attacked you. 
QUARREN: Save your objections until you see the entire recreation. Let's continue. 
[Pseudo Chamber 19]
(After pseudo Janeway has killed the woman.)
pTEDRAN: We will prevail. 
(She kills Tedran.)
pJANEWAY: Don't look so shocked, Ambassador. This is what you wanted, isn't it? 
EMH: Somewhere, halfway across the galaxy I hope, Captain Janeway is spinning in her grave. You've portrayed us as monsters. The Captain's a cold-blooded killer, the crew's a gang of thugs and I'm a mass murderer. 
QUARREN: Calm yourself. 
EMH: Why should I? I'm about to be hanged for crimes I didn't commit! 
QUARREN: Tell me your version of events. 
EMH: I remember this man. 
QUARREN: Tedran. He was a martyr to our people. 
EMH: Some martyr. He led the Kyrian attack against Voyager. 
QUARREN: You're lying. 
EMH: I was there. 
QUARREN: You're trying to protect yourself. 
EMH: And so are you. From the truth. Isn't it a coincidence that the Kyrians are being portrayed in the best possible light? Martyrs, heroes, saviours. Obviously, events have been reinterpreted to make your people feel better about themselves. Revisionist history. It's such a comfort. 
QUARREN: We were not the aggressors in the Great War, we were the victims. The proof can be found anywhere on this world. The Kyrian people are being oppressed to this day. 
EMH: The problems in your society are none of my business. I'm just telling you what I saw seven hundred years ago. 
QUARREN: I don't believe you, and neither will anyone else. 
EMH: What are you doing? 
QUARREN: Shutting down your programme. 
EMH: Wait, please. I can prove to you I'm right. The medical tricorder, the artefact you have on display. If you just let me
(Quarren deactivates the EMH.)
QUARREN: Lies. 
[Quarren's home]
QUARREN: Begin dictation. I've re-examined the data module. From what I can tell, the Doctor was telling the truth, at least about one thing. He is a hologram. A backup programme. We always knew he was an artificial lifeform but, we thought he was an android. If we were mistaken about that, I wonder if we might also be wrong about Voyager itself. Another question. Why would a hologram designed for medical purposes be programmed to lie so readily? From the moment I activated him, this Doctor has insisted that he's innocent. At first I didn't believe him. End dictation. 
[Museum]
(Next day, Quarren returns to his museum and looks at the medical tricorder they have on display.)
QUARREN: Activate recreation, the Voyager encounter. Display medical chamber. 
[pseudo Sickbay]
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical. Oh, it's you. 
QUARREN: You've given me a lot to think about. 
EMH: Really? I thought you'd heard enough of my lies. 
QUARREN: I judged you too quickly. I'm sorry. 
EMH: What changed your mind? 
QUARREN: Time to think. 
EMH: For your information, I don't appreciate being deactivated in the middle of a sentence. It brings back unpleasant memories. 
QUARREN: It won't happen again. 
EMH: Good, because if you don't stop treating me like a second-class hologram, I won't cooperate with your investigation. I'm perfectly happy to lie dormant in that module for a few eons. 
QUARREN: I didn't come here to argue. 
EMH: Then what do you want? 
QUARREN: I don't know. To talk, I guess, about what really happened seven hundred years ago. 
EMH: Are you sure you're willing to listen to a mass-murderer like me? 
QUARREN: I'm willing to keep an open mind. That's the most I can promise. Try to understand my point of view. All my life, I thought I knew the truth. There was never any doubt. 
EMH: I never meant to throw your beliefs into doubt, but I can't deny what I know to be true. 
QUARREN: I realise that now, and I want to know the truth. And I want the Arbiters to know it, too. 
EMH: Well, the stage is certainly set, but I'll have to rewrite the characters and revise the plot a little. I'm quite adept in the art of holographic programming. If you'll give me access to your technology, maybe I can create a simulation of own. Show you what happened. 
[Pseudo Ready room]
(This time, in the correct uniform and hair style.)
pJANEWAY: Don't worry, Ambassador. We've got plenty of medical supplies and we'd be more than happy to share them with you. 
DALETH: Then we agree. In exchange, we'll provide you with as much dilithium as you need. 
pJANEWAY: That's very generous, Ambassador 
DALETH: I'll transport the canisters immediately. It would be in your best interest to make this exchange quickly. 
pJANEWAY: Oh? Why's that? 
DALETH: We've been conflict with a neighbouring species, the Kyrians. They've been threatening to attack us. War could break out any day. We've tried every diplomatic option, but the Kyrians are a violent, stubborn people. 
pJANEWAY: No problem. I understand what you're going through. 
DALETH: I wish I could make you one of our diplomats. You might have better luck resolving this situation. 
pJANEWAY: Under different circumstances. Janeway to Sickbay. 
[Pseudo Sickbay]
pEMH: This is the Doctor. 
pJANEWAY [OC]: Ambassador Daleth and I have reached an agreement. 
[Pseudo Ready room]
pJANEWAY: Assemble the medical supplies. 
pEMH [OC]: Done, Captain. The supplies are in Cargo Bay one. 
pJANEWAY: Once we transport the supplies to the surface there may be a 
(Whumph!)
pTUVOK [OC]: Red alert. Captain Janeway to the bridge. 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pTUVOK: We're being fired on by three ships. 
DALETH: The Kyrians. 
pJANEWAY: Hail them. 
pTUVOK: Channel open. 
pJANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We are not your enemies. Please break off your attack. 
pTUVOK: They're not responding. 
DALETH: I'd advise you to retreat, Captain. 
pKIM: Shields down to eight six percent. 
pJANEWAY: Break out of orbit. Put some distance between us. 
pPARIS: Yes, ma'am. 
pTUVOK: Four intruders. They are in Engineering. 
pJANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. B'Elanna, respond. Tuvok. 
[Pseudo Engineering]
TEDRAN: Take as much of their technology as you can. 
pSEVEN: You will fail. 
(Tuvok and his security team enter. Tedran takes Seven as a hostage.)
pTUVOK: Drop your weapons. 
TEDRAN: Back away.
(Tuvok does so. Tedran and his team leave with Seven and a crewman.) 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pTUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Janeway. 
pJANEWAY: Go ahead. 
pTUVOK [OC]:The Kyrians have killed 
[Pseudo Engineering]
pTUVOK: Three of the engineering crew. They've taken Seven of Nine and one of the injured crew members hostage. 
[Pseudo Bridge]
pTUVOK [OC]: They're now on deck two, section thirty two. 
pJANEWAY: Acknowledged. Remember your offer to make me a diplomat? Well, it looks like I don't have much of a choice. Tell the doctor we have casualties. Have him meet us on deck two. 
[Pseudo Corridor]
pJANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. We're approaching section thirty one. 
pTUVOK [OC]: The evacuation of deck two is complete. 
pJANEWAY: Send three security teams to this deck, then seal all the access points. 
pTUVOK [OC]: Acknowledged. 
DALETH: How typical of the Kyrians. 
pEMH: What do you mean? 
DALETH: They fight the same way they live. Deviously. 
(Daleth has a weapon. They see Tedran and Seven at the end of the corridor.)
pJANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. 
pTUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here. 
pJANEWAY: The Kyrians are in the mess hall. We're going in. 
pTUVOK [OC]: Security is on the way. 
pEMH: I'll go first, Captain, and draw any fire if need be. 
DALETH: Your crew is heroic, Captain. 
pEMH: I just happen to be invulnerable to phaser fire, but I appreciate the compliment. Captain? 
pJANEWAY: Go. 
[Pseudo Mess hall]
DALETH: Tedran, this is between us. Leave these people out of it. 
TEDRAN: I know what you're doing. An alliance with these aliens. 
pJANEWAY: We were trading with them, nothing more. 
TEDRAN: You expect me to believe that? You plan to use this ship to destroy us. 
DALETH: We wouldn't need help if we wanted to destroy you. 
pJANEWAY: We didn't realise you were fighting with the Vaskans. Now, lay down your weapons and I promise you won't be harmed. 
(Tedran turns as security enter through the other door. Seven uses the distraction to disarm Tedran. Daleth fires his weapon.)
pJANEWAY: No! 
pEMH: He's dead.
(The Arbiters are also present.)
EMH: Computer, freeze programme. A tragic, needless death, but as you can see, Voyager was not responsible. After Tedran was killed, Voyager was attacked by nine Kyrian ships. My programme was disabled, most likely when they stole my backup module. The next thing I knew, I was standing next to this gentleman seven centuries later. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: Very entertaining. 
EMH: I'll admit your holotechnology is new to me. I had to extrapolate in a few places. But I assure you this is an accurate recreation. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: Perhaps. Or perhaps it's the fabrication of a war criminal who's afraid for his life. 
VASKAN ARBITER: Do you have any evidence to support your explanation? 
EMH: In fact, I do. I've confirmed that this is the same tricorder I used to scan Tedran at the moment of his death. If I can access the bio-readings inside, I can prove he was killed by a Vaskan weapon, not by Captain Janeway. 
VASKAN ARBITER: Can this be done? 
QUARREN: I've been trying to decipher the instrument for years, but, with the Doctor's help
KYRIAN ARBITER: I fail to see what this would prove. Tedran died on Voyager, a victim of a conspiracy to oppress my people. The weapon used, who fired it, this is all beside the point. 
VASKAN ARBITER: Was there a conspiracy? Did Voyager really help my ancestors to start the Great War? Or were Kyrians the aggressors as my people have always believed? Now, this casts doubt on everything. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: But it doesn't change the fact my children can't attend the same academies as yours, or that we are forced to live outside of the city centre. 
VASKAN ARBITER: Today's problems are not at issue here. This is about history. 
EMH: Look, I don't know who started your war. All I'm saying is that Voyager wasn't responsible. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: I can't believe that you would cooperate with this murderer. You of all people. You built this museum. 
QUARREN: The facts are turning out to be more complex than I expected. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: We shouldn't be listening to this hologram. I want him arrested and charged for the crimes we know he committed. 
VASKAN ARBITER: That's not your decision to make. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: No, it's not, is it? I'm only on this commission because you needed a token Kyrian. 
QUARREN: Please. This isn't about race. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: It's always about race. You seize every opportunity to keep yourselves in power. 
VASKAN ARBITER: I'm sorry you see it that way. I think we are obligated to hear what the Doctor has to say. Proceed with your investigation. 
QUARREN: Yes, Arbiter. 
KYRIAN ARBITER: You'll pay for your crimes. 
[Pseudo Sickbay]
EMH: Seven hundred years and I'm still caught in the middle of your little dispute. One might have hoped for a bit of social progress in the interim. 
QUARREN: Change never comes easily for us. 
EMH: Hmm. That's an understatement. 
QUARREN: I've entered the specifications that you gave me. 
EMH: Let's give it a try. (A tool materialises.) Hmm. Close enough. This diagnostic tool should help me get past the initial encryption sequences. Too bad we can't re-create B'Elanna Torres. 
QUARREN: Torres. The chief transporter operator. 
EMH: Chief Engineer. You might want to make the correction in your history books. 
QUARREN: What was she like, Torres? I suppose we've gotten her personality wrong too. 
EMH: Starting to believe me, are you? 
QUARREN: Well, let's just say I'm trying to keep an open mind. 
EMH: B'Elanna Torres. Intelligent, beautiful and with a chip on her shoulder the size of the Horsehead Nebula. She also had a kind of vulnerability that made her quite endearing. 
QUARREN: You miss her, and the others. 
EMH: From my perspective, I saw them all only a few days ago. But in fact, it's been centuries, and I'll never see them again. Did they ever reach home? I wonder. 
QUARREN: I've always wondered that too, from as far back as I can remember. 
EMH: Really? 
QUARREN: Ever since I was a small child, the first time I heard the name Voyager, it conjured up my imagination. 
EMH: Even though we were the bad guys? 
QUARREN: That didn't matter. I was too young to understand the implications. The fact you were so far from home, travelling across the stars. Ah, I found it all very heroic. I suppose Voyager is what made me fall in love with history. 
EMH: If it means anything to you, you would have made a fine member of our crew. 
(Boom! The building shakes.)
EMH: I hope that's part of the simulation. 
QUARREN: No, it isn't.
(The sound of breaking glass, and loud voices.) 
[Museum]
(A group of young Vaskans are trashing the museum.)
MOB: Everything goes! The days of lies are over! Destroy it all!
QUARREN: No! Stop this! 
VASKAN VISITOR: We know about the hologram. This museum's filled with lies. 
QUARREN: Stop! Listen to me! 
VASKAN VISITOR: We've listened long enough! 
QUARREN: They're using photon grenades. We've got to take cover. This way. 
(The tricorder gets left behind on a step as they take shelter by a large buttress. In the cold light of day, the mob has gone, but there is still weapons fire outside.);
EMH: What's happening? I've been hearing weapons. 
QUARREN: It's getting worse. Protests, vandalism. Two people have been killed. Don't worry, they've cordoned off the museum. We're safe for now. 
EMH: That's not what I'm concerned about. Two deaths, a race riot, all because of me? 
QUARREN: You were only the catalyst. The pressure's been building for years. It was only a matter of time before something set it off. Have you found the tricorder? 
EMH: Not yet. 
QUARREN: It's crucial that we do. The Kyrians are demanding you be punished for your crimes, but the Vaskans want to hear your version of events again. They want to continue the investigation. 
EMH: What's going to happen? 
QUARREN: I don't know. The Vaskans are more powerful, but the Kyrians are very angry. They're talking about another war. 
EMH: Then there's only one solution. Delete my programme. I've become a kind of symbol for this conflict. As long as I'm around your people are going to keep on fighting. I'll show you how to decompile my programme. You can say I was damaged in the attack last night. No one will hold you responsible. 
QUARREN: I can't do that to you. 
EMH: Then I'll do it myself. 
QUARREN: No! 
EMH: I'm a medical hologram, programmed to do no harm. But I'm doing harm on a global scale. Ever since you reactivated me, I've been concerned with clearing Voyager's good name. But that's not important now. There's more at stake. 
QUARREN: A few days ago I might have agreed with you, but what about the facts? 
EMH: Facts be damned! Names, dates, places, it's all open to interpretation. Who's to say what really happened? And ultimately, what difference does it make? What matters is today and the future of your people. 
QUARREN: Doctor, you were there. You can't deny what happened. 
EMH: I can, and I will. Tedran was a martyr for your people, a hero. A symbol of your struggle for freedom. Who am I to wander in seven hundred years later and take that away from you? 
QUARREN: History has been abused. We keep blaming each other for what happened in the past. If you don't help us now, it could be another seven hundred years. 
EMH: Let's find that tricorder.
(The camera swings round to reveal that all this too was a simulation.) 
[Future Museum]
TABRIS: It was a pivotal moment in our history. As a result of the Doctor's testimony, a dialogue was opened between our peoples. Eventually, we found a new respect for our divergent cultures and traditions. The efforts of people like Quarren and the Doctor paved the way for unity. Quarren died six years later, but he lived long enough to witness the Dawn of Harmony. 
KYRIAN SPECTATOR: And the Doctor? 
TABRIS: Well, he served as our surgical chancellor for many years until he decided to leave. He took a small craft and set a course for the Alpha Quadrant, attempting to trace the path of Voyager. He said he had a longing for home. This way. 

