Episode Number: 301
The Voyager Transcripts - The Chute
The Chute
Stardate: 50156.2
Original Airdate: Sept 18, 1996
[Akritirian prison]
(A klaxon sounds, attracting raggedy men from various cubby holes.) 
MAN [OC]: New man coming! 
MAN 2 [OC]: New prisoner. 
MAN [OC]: Get out of my way! 
MAN 2 [OC]: There is a new man coming. 
MAN 3 [OC]: Here he comes. 
MAN 2 [OC]: Hurry up. 
MAN [OC]: New prisoner! 
MAN 2 [OC]: Hey, something's coming. 
(An iris opens at the top of a chute and a person slides down, landing with a thump. Laughter from the assembled men, who suggest taking his boots or killing him. A grizzled man pushes through the crowd.) 
PIT: Get out of my way. 
(He pulls Harry Kim, for it is he, to his feet. A fight starts, and Kim manages to get in a few punches of his own before he is kicked to the ground.) 
MAN: Kill him, kill him. 
(A fair haired man intervenes.) 
KIM: Tom. 
(Paris punches Kim in the stomach. He goes down.) 
PIT: Nobody touch him. He's mine. 
(Pit starts to drag Kim away by the foot.) 
KIM: Wait. This is a mistake. I don't belong here! 
PIT: You don't? Well, I'll just take you home then. All right? 
PARIS: This one's mine. 
PIT: I say he's not. 
PARIS: He's the reason that I'm here. He was my partner in a bombing. We killed forty seven patrollers at Akritiri. Forty seven! And then this scum confessed to the Tribunal and gave them my name. So I'm telling you again, he's mine. 
PIT: I'm keeping him. 
(Paris gets a knife to Pit's throat.) 
PIT: Take him. For now. 
[Paris' hovel]
KIM: Did you have to hit me so hard? 
PARIS: Trust me. Around here, you don't want anybody thinking you're soft. 
KIM: Thanks for the tip. Is there any food? 
PARIS: I haven't had anything to eat since I got here. 
KIM: How long is that? 
PARIS: Couple of days. Some shore leave, huh? What happened to you after they split us up? 
KIM: The Akritirians interrogated me. When I wouldn't confess to the bombing, they dragged me in front of a judge. He said you'd already confessed for the both of us, then he pronounced me guilty. 
PARIS: That's exactly what happened to me. Then they must have drugged me, because the next thing I knew, I woke up at the bottom of the chute to that welcoming party. 
KIM: We've got to explain to somebody that there's been a mistake. 
PARIS: Who did you have in mind? 
KIM: A guard, the warden. 
PARIS: Haven't seen anybody like that. 
KIM: A prison without guards. 
PARIS: The other inmates say this place is three hundred metres underground. Maybe the Akritirians figure guards aren't necessary. 
(Kim holds out a cup.) 
KIM: Can I have some more? 
PARIS: What do you think this is, a hotel? There isn't any more! 
KIM: Take it easy. 
PARIS: I'm sorry. I'm really starting to get edgy. I think it's the clamp. 
KIM: The what? 
(Paris shows him a small metal object embedded in the back of his skull.) 
PARIS: That's what the prisoners call it. Everybody has one. 
KIM: What is it? 
PARIS: I'm guessing it's some kind of synaptic stimulator. Anyway, it's affecting my nervous system. I've been getting jumpier ever since I got here, not to mention this thing itches like crazy. 
KIM: What do you think it's for? 
PARIS: Maybe it's some kind of torture device. 
KIM: We could try taking them out. 
PARIS: No! I saw someone try it. It killed him! What we have to do is find a way out of this place. 
KIM: Let's get something straight first. 
PARIS: What? 
KIM: The next time you take a swing at me, I'm hitting back. 
(The klaxon sounds.) 
KIM: What's that? 
PARIS: Another prisoner, maybe. 
MAN [OC]: Food! Food! 
PARIS: Join me for dinner? 
[Akritirian prison]
(Brown slabs of something are slid down the chute. There is much scrabbling and stamping on hands to get as much as possible as quickly as possible.);
MAN: Oh, there's got to be more! 
(He reaches to the iris and gets zapped. He falls back. Another prisoner gets his throat slit for the food he had collected. His murderer is very casual about it all.) 
ZIO: I don't think he was going to eat it anyway, do you? 
KIM: He's dead. 
PARIS: I think I've lost my appetite. 
Captain's log, stardate 50156.2. After seventy two hours, Lieutenant Paris and Ensign Kim are still missing, and I'm quickly losing patience with the Akritirian authorities. They continue to deny us access to the surface, and they've yet to confirm whether our crewmen were killed in the bombing. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Anything? 
TUVOK: I have completed another full sensor sweep, including multispectral subsurface scan. I still can not locate their life signs or their comm. badges. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, Ambassador Liria is hailing us. 
JANEWAY: On screen. I'm only in a mood for good news today, Ambassador. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid I can't oblige. 
JANEWAY: Are you saying they're dead? 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: No, they're very much alive. 
JANEWAY: Then where are they? 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Your men have been convicted of the terrorist bombing at the Laktivia recreational facility, which resulted in the death of forty seven off-duty patrollers. 
JANEWAY: I assure you, Ambassador, my people had nothing to do with this attack. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: We found chemical traces of the explosive used in the bombing on their hands and clothing. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure the same could be said of anyone who was near the explosion. It's hardly enough evidence for a conviction. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: The explosive was trilithium based. There is no source of trilithium anywhere in our system. So, you can imagine our surprise when our investigation revealed that your ship is powered by dilithium, which our scientists tell us is convertible into trilithium. We have long suspected that the so-called Open Sky Terrorists had off-world collaborators. Now we know who they are. 
TUVOK: Captain, two Akritirian ships are approaching at bearing two seven one, mark six four. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Prepare your ship for inspection, Captain. 
JANEWAY: If it will help confirm our innocence, I'll consider it. But first I want to know where my people are being held, and I want to talk to them immediately. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Communication with inmates is not permitted. 
JANEWAY: If you want my co-operation, Ambassador, you're going to have to do better than that. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Perhaps you've misunderstood me. Let me clarify our position. Your vessel is being impounded. You and your crew are under arrest. Prepare to be boarded. 
TUVOK: Captain, their ships are powering weapons. 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, raise shields. Mister Chakotay, take the conn. I'd like to resolve this situation peacefully, Ambassador, but let me clarify my position. I will not allow this ship to be boarded. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: That, Captain, is an error in judgement. 
(The two small ships open fire, rocking Voyager.) 
TUVOK: Captain, should I return fire? 
JANEWAY: That's not going to help us get Tom and Harry back. We need to regroup. Get us out of here, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. 
[Paris' hovel]
KIM: What took you so long? I've been back at least half an hour. 
PARIS: You're starting to feel it, aren't you? 
KIM: I guess I am. 
PARIS: It gets worse all the time. We have to fight it. Let's focus on something positive. 
KIM: How about a seven course dinner? I suppose you didn't find any food. 
PARIS: Er, well, I found close to fifty good citizens in this quaint little community, but not a grocer among them. 
KIM: I take it that's a no. 
PARIS: Yeah. But if we ever do get our hands on some food, I found a lovely spot for a picnic. 
KIM: Great. All we need are the Delaney sisters and we could make a day of it. 
PARIS: So how about you? Come across anything interesting in your travels? 
KIM: If you mean an escape route, I ran into nothing but solid walls. 
PARIS: Me too. As far as I can see, the only way to the surface is that chute in the main chamber. 
KIM: Question is, how do we get into it without getting fried by that forcefield? You saw what happened to the man who reached inside. 
PARIS: That's where this might come in handy. 
(A piece of metal piping.) 
PARIS: I thought if we could get our hands on some loose wiring, you might be able to use it to rig a device that would short out the forcefield long enough for us to get into the tube. 
KIM: It's worth a try. 
PARIS: Yeah. Now if we could only figure out a way to short out these implants, we'd be all set. 
[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: There's no indication they followed us. 
JANEWAY: I guess they're more interested in getting rid of us than finding out the truth. 
TORRES: We've got to go back for Harry and Tom. 
JANEWAY: B'Elanna. 
TUVOK: We have no information as to their whereabouts. And if we return to Akritirian space, we are sure to encounter further hostilities. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok is right. Let's concentrate on proving Harry and Tom's innocence. 
TORRES: How do we do that? 
JANEWAY: We know the explosive was trilithium based. If we find the source of that trilithium, it may lead us to the real bombers. 
CHAKOTAY: Our long range scans indicate that Liria was right. There's no trilithium in this sector. 
TORRES: What about paralithium? It's used as a fuel for some ion based propulsion systems, and it can be converted into trilithium. 
JANEWAY: Review our sensor logs of ships entering and leaving Akritirian space during the time we were in orbit. If anybody's using paralithium for fuel, I want to find out who they are and where they went. 
[Akritirian prison]
(By the chute. Kim is wrapping bits of wire around the metal pipe.) 
KIM: Come on, come on, come on. 
PARIS: Take it easy. You'll get it. 
KIM: Damn! I can't think! I can't concentrate! 
PARIS: Okay. Okay, concentrate on this. Crown roast of lamb, with a bed of wild rice, and a 2296 Chateau Lafitte Rothschild at the real Sandrine's. 
KIM: Or how about shrimp with fettran sauce, flamb� noodles and fudge ripple pudding. 
PARIS: Good one. Okay. A couple of barbecued T-bone steaks with baked Risan beans and cherry pie for dessert. Let's see you top that one. 
KIM: Right now, I'm so hungry I could eat a bowl of Neelix's leola root stew. 
PARIS: Me too. Never thought I'd say that. 
KIM: I'm ready to give it a try. So far, so good. 
(Kim touches the forcefield with the pipe, and gets thrown backwards.) 
PARIS: Are you okay? 
PIT: What are you doing? 
PARIS: Just out for a little stroll. (to Kim) Move it! 
PIT: What's that? 
KIM: A pipe. 
PIT: Let's see it. 
PARIS: Come on. I'd really recommend that you stay out of my way. 
PIT: You should have thought of that before you took him. 
(Other prisoners grab Kim as Pit slashes at Paris with his knife. Paris fights back.) 
KIM: Come on, Tom. 
(Paris knocks Pit down, and gets stabbed by another prisoner.) 
KIM: Tom! 
(Kim breaks free and goes to Paris' help, swinging the metal pipe.) 
KIM: Back off! Back off! Back off! Back off! Hang on. I'm getting you out of here. 
ZIO: No fight, no fight. If he doesn't bleed to death, he'll die from infection. 
KIM: We've got to get him to a doctor. 
ZIO: Of course. We'll call an emergency vehicle and rush him to a hospital. 
(Kim pushes Zio away and carries Paris off.) 
ZIO: Hey! What do you want for the dead man's boots? 
(On the way to the hovel.) 
KIM: You can make it. Just a few more steps and we'll be back to the shelter. 
PARIS: Home sweet home. Harry. 
KIM: Yeah. 
PARIS: I'm hurt pretty bad. 
KIM: I'll take care of it. 
PARIS: Promise me something. 
KIM: What? 
PARIS: If things get worse, if it comes down to making a choice, don't worry about me. Take care of yourself. Do we have a deal? 
KIM: Quiet. 
(A man comes out of their hovel.) 
KIM: Hey! What are you doing in there? 
RIB: Get out. 
KIM: This place is ours. 
RIB: Get out! Get out! Get out! 
(There are several prisoners living there now.) 
[Zio's hovel]
(Zio is writing on scraps of paper.) 
KIM: Okay, here's the deal. My boots for some clean cloth, a litre of water, two of those food cakes and my friend gets to stay in there until he's better. 
ZIO: I don't take in boarders. 
KIM: What about the rest of it? 
ZIO: I don't like the colour. 
PARIS: Come on. Let's go. This guy's not going to help us. 
KIM: Just tell me what you want for the food and the bandages, okay? 
ZIO: That pipe you were working with interests me. 
KIM: I can't trade the pipe. 
ZIO: Then I guess we don't have a deal. Now move on. You're blocking my light. 
KIM: I'll take you with me. 
ZIO: Take me where? 
KIM: I know a way out of this place. 
ZIO: I've been in here six years. I've never heard of a way out. 
KIM: The chute. 
ZIO: Anybody that tries to get in there gets hit with an energy pulse. 
KIM: With this pipe, I can disable the forcefield. With a little luck, we can make it to the surface. What are you staring at? 
ZIO: I'm trying to figure out if you're a liar, or if the clamp has already made you crazy. 
KIM: Neither. And I'll prove it to you. 
ZIO: You stand your ground. I like that. 
KIM: Then we have a deal? 
ZIO: Just remember one thing. If you're lying, I'll kill you. 
Captain's log, supplemental. So far we've located three ships with paralithium plasma emissions, but none of them appears to have produced explosives. We're currently in pursuit of a fourth vessel. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We're in hailing range of the Akritirian freighter, Captain. 
TUVOK: I'm only reading two life signs aboard. 
JANEWAY: Open a channel. This is Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager to the captain of the Akritirian cargo vessel. 
(A young man and woman appear on the viewscreen. The man speaks.) 
VEL [on viewscreen]: I'm the captain of this vessel. What do you want? 
JANEWAY: Two of my crew members were convicted by the Akritirians of a terrorist bombing. We're trying to prove their innocence, and we have reason to believe a ship like yours, which uses paralithium for fuel, might have been involved in the production of the explosives. 
PIRI [on viewscreen]: Let's get out of here. 
VEL [on viewscreen]: Quiet. (to Janeway) This is a cargo vessel. 
JANEWAY: Then you won't mind if a few of my crew members come aboard to have a look around. 
VEL [on viewscreen]: Not if they don't mind having their throats cut. 
JANEWAY: There's no need to be abrupt. 
(Transmission ends.) 
CHAKOTAY: I guess you're not the only captain who doesn't want their ship boarded. 
TORRES: Captain, I'm picking up residual traces of trilithium. They're faint but they're there. I think we may have found our bomb makers. 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, send a security detail to Transporter room two. Lieutenant Torres, beam the two of them aboard and tractor their ship into the shuttle bay. 
TORRES: Aye, Captain. 
[Conference room]
VEL: You have no right to hold us. 
JANEWAY: My people have been accused of aiding a terrorist group called Open Sky. What do you know about them? 
PIRI: They're not terrorists. They're patriots. One day they'll lead the legitimate government of our people. 
VEL: We don't have to answer any of their questions, Piri. 
JANEWAY: Sounds to me like your young friend here sympathises with these patriots. 
VEL: She's not my friend. She's my sister. And our political views are none of your business. 
JANEWAY: I don't know much about your world, but I do know that my people are being held for a crime they didn't commit and I'm going to do everything in my power to get them out. Do you understand that? 
TUVOK: We have confirmed that explosives were indeed produced aboard their ship. 
JANEWAY: Escort them to the brig. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: And have Mister Chakotay lay in a course for the Akritirian border. 
VEL: Let my sister go. She didn't have anything to do with the bombing and she's only fourteen. 
PIRI: Prison doesn't scare 
VEL: Quiet, Piri. Please, you don't know what you're saying. Nobody ever gets out of prison on Akritiri. They'll just let her rot in there for the rest of her life. 
JANEWAY: I admire your desire to protect your sister but, it's not really up to me, is it? 
PIRI: Tell them what we know. 
JANEWAY: Tell me what? 
VEL: Piri, don't. 
PIRI: Our brigade found out where the maximum security detention facility is located. 
VEL: My sister has quite a vivid imagination. 
PIRI: With this ship, you can attack the prison and get your people out. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. That's not how we do things where I come from. 
PIRI: Coward. 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, see that they get a bath and a hot meal. 
[Zio's hovel]
PARIS: I don't trust that guy, Harry. 
KIM: I can handle him. 
PARIS: Just watch your back, okay? 
KIM: Try to get some rest. 
PARIS: Remember our deal? 
KIM: What deal? 
PARIS: If it comes down to it, you're going to save yourself, right? If you see a chance, just go. Don't come back for me. 
KIM: I think the clamp must really be starting to make you crazy. 
PARIS: I'm serious, Harry. 
ZIO: I'm getting tired of waiting. 
KIM: I've got to go. 
PARIS: Harry. 
[Akritirian prison]
(Kim is working on a panel by the chute, and making sparks fly. Zio appears to be meditating.) 
KIM: Damn it! 
ZIO: Don't fight it. Use it. 
KIM: How do I do that? I feel like there's a million fire ants in my brain. 
ZIO: Good. Make them work for you. 
KIM: How? 
ZIO: Fire ants sound vicious. Imagine them as your army moving in a vast wave to conquer your enemy. There's a massive struggle going on inside you, a battle to the death between you and the clamp. You have to use whatever force you can to defeat it. 
KIM: I'd rather use my energy to work on getting out of here. 
ZIO: When I first got here, I assumed the clamp was just a refined form of torture to make our prison stay that much more arduous. Gradually, I began to understand it more fully. It's all right here in my manifesto. My insights, my reasoning, my evidence. It's an experiment. They're studying us like animals. Pitting us against each other to find out what happens. You can see that, can't you? 
KIM: I guess so. 
ZIO: The greatest threat, of course, would be if we started to cooperate with each other, so they prevented that. But there had to be more to it than that. And the longer I was in here, the more I knew it was my job to figure it out. That's the reason I was put here. And eventually, it came to me as though a fireball had exploded in my mind. And the realisation gave me a power over the others. They don't come near me any more. They're afraid of me because I know the truth. Well? Don't you want to know what it is? What is the ultimate purpose of the clamp? 
KIM: Okay. 
ZIO: It's inspired. Brilliant. It's a method for controlling the prison population. We kill each other off. 
KIM: Sure. Whatever you say. 
ZIO: So you must enter into the battle. If you let the clamp control you, you'll end up like that crazy old man that took over your shelter. But if you learn to control it, you'll survive. Like me. 
(Kim slides a wire into position.) 
KIM: Yes. I plan to be out of here before it even becomes an issue. Go ahead. Touch it. 
(The chute forcefield is neutralised. Zio pushes open the iris and Kim leads the way up the chute.) 
[Top of the chute]
ZIO: What do you see? 
KIM: Some kind of hatch. 
(Kim wedges himself safely and starts rubbing at the hatch.) 
ZIO: What do you see? Are we at the surface? 
(Kim is cleaning the grime off the inside of a spacestation's porthole.) 
[Zio's hovel]
PARIS: Harry. 
KIM: How are you feeling? 
PARIS: Er, I was dreaming about Megan Delaney. 
KIM: Next time I'll try not to wake you. 
PARIS: The chute. You made it in? Did you find a way out? 
KIM: Not yet, but we're very close. It's just a matter of time, so you've got to hang in there, okay? 
PARIS: What, what happened to me? 
KIM: Easy, Tom. You got stabbed, remember? 
PARIS: Who, who did it? 
KIM: One of the prisoners. 
PARIS: No. No, it was you. 
KIM: I'm trying to change your bandage. 
PARIS: No, get away from me! 
KIM: Please! 
PARIS: Get away from me! 
KIM: I'm trying to help you! Tom! Tom, give me the pipe. We need it to get out of here, remember? It's okay. Let me take it. 
PARIS: Harry. What's happening to me? 
KIM: You're going to be okay. 
PARIS: Harry? 
KIM: Yeah? 
PARIS: Don't leave me here. 
KIM: Close your eyes. 
[Outside Zio's hovel]
(Later -) 
ZIO: Sleep well? 
KIM: No. 
ZIO: How about your friend? Is he dead yet? 
KIM: Shut up! The chute leads to a docking port, right? Some kind of ship must come to drop off food, drop off new prisoners. So maybe we could get aboard the ship. 
ZIO: It's getting the best of you. 
KIM: I know we could do it. 
ZIO: You think they're just going to open the hatch and ask us if we'd like a ride home? 
KIM: We'd have the element of surprise. 
ZIO: And they'd have the pulse guns. 
KIM: If we could hold them off, distract them, just for a few minutes, I could establish our location, get a message to Voyager, and they could get us out of here. We'll need weapons. 
ZIO: I've never let anyone see this, but I'm going to let you read my manifesto. It'll teach you how to control the clamp. 
KIM: I don't want to read your crazy manifesto. 
ZIO: Take it. Learn everything I know. 
(Kim knocks the papers out of Zio's hand.) 
KIM: Now, are you going to help me or not? 
ZIO: If I were like the others, I'd kill you. But I don't lose control. That's the difference between me and you. 
[Akritirian prison]
KIM: Listen! Listen to me, everybody! This is important. I've got something to say. Something you'll want to hear. It's what you've been waiting for. 
PIT: What the hell do you want? 
KIM: I've found a way out of here. 
PIT: There's no way out. 
KIM: There is! Through the chute! I've been inside! Listen! We have to work together! They'd like us all to kill each other, but we have to cooperate. If we do, we can get out of here. 
PIT: If you've been in the chute, where does it lead? 
ALL: Yeah! Yeah! 
KIM: Space. It's the truth! We can escape, if we work together! 
(Someone throws a missile at Kim, that hits him on the head.) 
[Zio's hovel]
(Paris is pulling the wires off the pipe.) 
KIM: What the hell are you doing? 
PARIS: Stay back. 
KIM: You've ruined it! You 
PARIS: It's mine! Mine! 
(They struggle for the pipe. Kim starts banging Paris' head against the wall, then finally raises the pipe to smash it down on him.) 
ZIO: Go ahead. Finish him. 
(Kim drops the pipe and runs out.) 
[Outside Zio's hovel]
ZIO: You wanted to kill him, didn't you? 
KIM: He's my best friend! 
ZIO: No, that's where you're wrong. He's too far gone to be your friend. All he is now is a burden. 
KIM: That's not true! 
ZIO: He eats your food. He ruined your device. He's given in to the clamp. You've got to get rid of him before he brings you down with him. 
KIM: Quiet! 
ZIO: You've got a chance to make something of your life in here, but as long as that carcass is in my hut, we'll never be able to go on to more important things. 
KIM: What the hell are you talking about? 
ZIO: We've got to disseminate the manifesto. Gather our followers. Train them. 
KIM: You're insane. 
ZIO: You want my protection? You want to live under my roof? Get rid of him. 
KIM: I don't need your protection! 
ZIO: How long do you think you'll last against Pit and the others without me looking out for you? 
(Zio offers Kim a bloodied, chipped, knife.) 
ZIO: Go ahead, take it. Think of what a relief it will be not to have that responsibility, and be free of his ranting. 
(Kim takes the knife.) 
KIM: I'm not a killer. 
ZIO: Do you want to survive in here? You'd better learn to be. 
KIM: If that's what it takes to stay alive, then I'd rather die. 
(He drops the knife.) 
ZIO: Get out now. And take him with you, or I will kill him. 
[Bridge]
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Unless you've decided to relinquish control of your vessel, Captain, I suggest that you do not proceed across our border. 
JANEWAY: We've captured the ship and crew responsible for the bombing at the Laktivia canteen. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: I see. 
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to trade them for the immediate and unconditional release of Lieutenant Paris and Ensign Kim. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: Your crewmen have already been tried and convicted. 
JANEWAY: Are you saying those convictions can't be reversed? No matter what new evidence is brought to light? 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: You are correct. 
JANEWAY: That is an outrageous policy. 
LIRIA [on viewscreen]: I assure you, it has proved to be a most effective deterrent. Good day, Captain. 
(Transmission ends.) 
CHAKOTAY: So much for negotiating. 
TUVOK: What should we do with the prisoners? 
JANEWAY: Bring Vel to my ready room. Now. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: I want the location and shield codes of the maximum security detention facility. 
VEL: What's wrong? the Akritirians didn't agree to your terms? 
JANEWAY: No, as a matter of fact. But I suspect you will. 
VEL: And what makes you so sure? 
JANEWAY: Because if you don't, you and your sister are going to spend the rest of your lives in prison. 
VEL: I'll take you to the prison. And I'll get you in. But there are members of Open Sky in there and I want to get them out too. 
JANEWAY: I don't think you understand the way this works. You tell me what I want to know, and after I get my people back, I let you and your sister go. 
VEL: That's not good enough. 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, inform the Akritirians that we're ready to turn the prisoners over. 
VEL: All right. 
TUVOK: Crewman Foster, take the prisoner to Commander Chakotay. He will upload the coordinates and codes. 
(Ms Foster takes Vel onto the bridge.) 
TUVOK: May I ask how you propose to get past the Akritirian patrols? No doubt they will attack as soon as Voyager crosses the border. 
JANEWAY: That's exactly why the rescue team won't be aboard Voyager. 
TUVOK: Captain? 
JANEWAY: If I'm not mistaken, Mister Neelix's ship is still in our shuttle bay. 
TUVOK: Yes. However, Mister Neelix's vessel has extremely limited combat capabilities. 
JANEWAY: Then we'll have to be very careful, won't we? 
[Akritirian prison]
(Pit and Kim are fighting over an unconscious Paris.) 
PIT: I want his clothes, and I want his shoes! 
KIM: This man is my friend. Nobody touches him! 
PIT: Back off! You won't have to get hurt. 
(Klaxon.) 
MAN [OC]: It's the chute! 
PIT: New prisoner! 
(Captain Janeway slides down the chute, phaser rifle at the ready.) 
MAN: I got him! 
(She shoots two prisoners simultaneously. Tuvok slides down.) 
TUVOK: Hands on your heads. 
JANEWAY: Do it! Now! 
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Lieutenant Tuvok. 
TUVOK: Go ahead. 
NEELIX [OC]: We've got company. 
[Neelix's ship]
NEELIX: Two Akritirian patrol ships on an intercept course. I'm not sure how long I can hold them off. 
TUVOK [OC]: We are moving as quickly as we can, Mister Neelix. 
[Akritirian prison]
KIM: Captain. 
JANEWAY: Where's Tom? 
KIM: He needs help. 
(More security men have arrived.) 
TUVOK: Go. 
[Neelix's ship]
PATROL [OC]: Akritirian Patrol to alien vessel. Disengage immediately. 
NEELIX: Akritirian Patrol. Er, am I in Akritirian space? Oh, dear. I, I thought this was the Heva Seven refuelling port. You wouldn't by any chance be able to recommend a respectable establishment where I could have my navigational array repaired? 
PATROL [OC]: Disengage immediately. This is your final warning. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Neelix. Everyone's aboard. 
NEELIX: Acknowledged. I know it's a little cramped back there, so if there's anything I can do to make you more comfortable. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Neelix, just get us out of here. 
NEELIX: Of course, Captain. Talaxian vessel to Akritirian Patrol. My apologies for the little mix-up. I'll departing now as per your orders. 
(Neelix undocks from the space station.) 
PATROL [OC]: Power down your engines and prepare to be boarded. 
NEELIX: Er, what was that, Patrol? That last message was garbled. 
(Bang! Neelix flies his ship away very quickly.) 
[Sickbay]
NEELIX: I've always thought of my piloting skills as modest at best, and the conditions were extremely dangerous. Still, I did outmanoeuvre those Akritirians, didn't I? 
PARIS: You did a terrific job, Neelix. 
JANEWAY: I agree. Excellent piloting. 
NEELIX: I'm glad to hear you say that, Captain, because I've been thinking. Until Tom here gets back on his feet, perhaps I could, er, try my hand at conn for a while. 
EMH: That won't be necessary. Lieutenant Paris is just fine, thanks to excellent doctoring. I've finished analysing these implants, and you'll be happy to know that the treatment I've provided will successfully counteract their effect on you. 
JANEWAY: What exactly was the effect? 
EMH: My readings indicate that the implants are designed to stimulate the production of acetylcholine in the hypothalamus. 
KES: That would explain the agitation. 
EMH: Hmm. Acetylcholine is a brain chemical common to the neural structures of most humanoids. Essentially, it helps stimulate one's aggressive tendencies. 
KIM: Zio was right. 
PARIS: Come on, Harry. We're overdue for that steak dinner. 
KIM: I guess so. 
PARIS: What do you mean, you guess so? It's the thought of that dinner that kept us going. 
[Corridor]
PARIS: So, what do you think? Er, baked potato, a big mound of deep fried onion rings. 
KIM: Tom 
PARIS: Maybe, maybe, some grilled mushrooms. 
KIM: Tom, listen to me. I, I almost killed you. 
PARIS: What are you saying? You're the one that kept me alive. 
KIM: I was ready to hit you with the pipe. Don't you remember? 
PARIS: You want to know what I remember? Someone saying, this man is my friend. Nobody touches him. I'll remember that for a long time. So, what do you say we blow a week's worth of replicator rations? 
KIM: So what's for dessert? 
PARIS: Cherry pie. Don't you remember? 
KIM: What about the fudge ripple pudding? 
PARIS: Ah! Yes. 

