Episode Number: 722
The Voyager Transcripts - Endgame
Endgame
Stardate: 54973.4
Original Airdate: 23 May 2001
dialogue provided by 'Harry Kim' of the Observation Lounge. With many thanks.
[2404 - San Francisco - Admiral Janeway's Apartment - night]
(Voyager swoops over San Francisco and over the Golden Gate Bridge amid a big firework display and in front of a large crowd.) 
NEWSREADER [OC]: These should be familiar images to everyone who remembers the USS Voyager's triumphant return to Earth after twenty three years in the Delta Quadrant. Voyager captivated the hearts and minds of people throughout the Federation, so it seems fitting that on this, the tenth anniversary of their return, we take a moment to recall the sacrifices made by the crew. Corruption charges were brought today against a Ferengi 
JANEWAY: Computer, end display.
(Janeway is silver-haired now. She gazes out of her window.) 
[Admiral Janeway's Apartment - party]
(A Bolian waiter is serving drinks. People of all ages are mixing and greeting. A little girl taps the arm of a man with a lot of grey in his hair.)
KIM: Hello. 
SABRINA: What's your name?
KIM: Harry. What's yours?
SABRINA: Sabrina.
KIM: Naomi's daughter? 
SABRINA: Ah ha. 
KIM: You've gotten so big.
SABRINA: I don't remember you.
KIM: I haven't come to one of these reunions in four years.
SABRINA: Why?
KIM: I've been on a deep space assignment.
SABRINA: For four years?
KIM: Compared to how long I was on Voyager, it seemed like a long weekend. Can you find your mother for me? 
SABRINA: Ah ha. 
KIM: I'd like to say hi. 
(Janeway lifts her arm ;to avoid spilling a drink as Sabrina runs off.)
JANEWAY: Oops. Here you are, Captain.
KIM: Thank you, Admiral. I haven't seen her since she was a baby.
JANEWAY: It's amazing how fast you've all grown.
KIM: How's Tuvok?
JANEWAY: Not well. 
KIM: I thought maybe I'd go see him tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Oh, that would be nice.
KIM: I'm sorry I missed the funeral. I should have been there.
JANEWAY: You were on a mission. Everyone understood. It's so good to see you, Harry. 
(The EMH enters with a young lovely on his arm.)
PARIS: Doc! 
(Paris is going bald.)
EMH: Mister Paris. Voyager's pilot, medic, and occasional thorn in my side. Where have you been hiding yourself?
PARIS: I've been busy.
EMH: New holonovel?
PARIS: I'll make sure to get your input before I send it off to my publisher. Aren't you going to introduce me to your date? 
EMH: Mister Paris meet Lana, my blushing bride.
PARIS: You're married?
LANA: Tomorrow is our two week anniversary. 
PARIS: Well, congratulations. My invitation must have gotten lost in subspace..
EMH: Oh, you should be flattered. We took a page from your book and eloped.
LANA: Joe has a real flair for romantic gestures.
PARIS: Joe?
EMH: I decided I couldn't get married without a name. 
PARIS: It took you thirty three years to come up with Joe?
EMH: It was Lana's grandfather's name. 
PARIS: Oh. Oh, so you're not a
LANA: A hologram? No.
EMH: Frankly, Mister Paris, I'm surprised you'd even ask. I thought we were beyond those sorts of distinctions.
PARIS: Are you kidding? I think it's great. I'm in a mixed marriage myself, remember?
EMH: Speaking of which, where is that wife of yours? 
(She is talking to Janeway.)
TORRES: The High Council had a lot of questions. 
JANEWAY: What did you tell them?
TORRES: The truth, with a Klingon twist. I told them that my beloved former captain, who had saved my life many times in glorious battle, would be honoured to submit Korath's House for consideration.
JANEWAY: Do you think it will work?
TORRES: I'm just the Federation liaison, but I'd like to think I have some influence. You still haven't told me why you're trying to help Korath.
JANEWAY: He's an old friend.
TORRES: Would this old friend have anything to do with the mission that you sent my daughter on?
JANEWAY: Sorry, B'Elanna, but you know I can't talk about that. 
TORRES: Couldn't you at least have waited until after the reunion? She really wanted to be here.
JANEWAY: She'll be home soon, I promise. 
(The sound of spoon on champagne flute.)
BARCLAY: May I have everyone's attention, please. Ten years ago tonight, this crew returned home from the longest away mission in Starfleet's history. Twenty three years together made you a family, one I'm proud to have been adopted by. Let's raise our glasses to the journey.
ALL: To the journey.
JANEWAY: And to those who aren't here to celebrate it with us. 
[Starfleet classroom]
BARCLAY: Ladies and gentlemen, meet the Borg. 
(A hologram of a drone appears.)
BARCLAY: Over the course of this term, you're going to become intimately familiar with the Collective. You'll learn about the assimilation process, the Borg hierarchy, and the psychology of the hive mind. And when it comes to your performance in this class, my expectations are going to be no different than the Borg Queen herself. Perfection. This semester, we are very fortunate to have a special guest lecturer. The woman who literally wrote the book on the Borg. Admiral Kathryn Janeway.
JANEWAY: Thank you, Commander. I'm glad to be here. A question already, cadet?
CADET: I suppose it could wait until after class, Admiral.
JANEWAY: As they say in the Temporal Mechanics Department, there's no time like the present.
CADET: In the year 2377, you aided the Borg resistance movement known as Unimatrix Zero.
BARCLAY: Sounds like someone's been reading ahead.
JANEWAY: I thought you had a question, Cadet.
CADET: Yes, ma'am. When you informed the Queen that you were going to liberate thousands of her drones, could you describe the look on her face?
FEMALE CADET: Admiral? Some of us were talking before class and we were curious. How extensive was Seven of Nine's involvement with Unimatrix Zero?
JANEWAY: I'd, er, prefer not to discuss Seven of Nine.
FEMALE CADET: Yes, ma'am. Sorry.
(An aide enters and whispers in Janeway's ear.) 
JANEWAY: Excuse me. 
(Janeway and her aide leave.)
BARCLAY: Okay, er, who can tell me a little about nanotechnology? 
[Admiral Janeway's office]
MIRAL [on monitor]: I'm sorry to pull you out of class, Admiral.
JANEWAY: Did you see it?
MIRAL [on monitor]: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: And?
MIRAL [on monitor]: It works.
JANEWAY: Korath has agreed to the exchange?
MIRAL [on monitor]: Yes.
JANEWAY: But?
MIRAL [on monitor]: He's insisting on handing it over to you personally.
JANEWAY: I'll be there as soon as I can. Good work, Ensign Paris. 
[Starfleet Medical - Tuvok's room]
(Candles and crumpled pieces of paper scattered all over the floor. The meditation lamp is also being used to provide illumination for his writings. Tuvok is left-handed.)
JANEWAY: Hello, Tuvok. 
TUVOK: The light. 
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm sorry.
(Janeway steps inside and the door closes. She is holding something fastened with a white ribbon.)
TUVOK: I know you. 
JANEWAY: That's right. I'm your friend, Kathryn Janeway, remember?
TUVOK: You're an impostor.
JANEWAY: No, Tuvok. It's me.
TUVOK: Admiral Janeway visits on Sunday. Today is Thursday. Logic dictates that you are not who you claim to be.
JANEWAY: How are you?
TUVOK: I am close to completing my work. 
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it.
TUVOK: It is difficult with so many interruptions. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. Would you like me to leave? 
TUVOK: You may stay. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok, there's something I need to tell you. It's very important. I'm going away and I may not see you again. Commander Barclay and the Doctor will continue to visit. They'll bring you anything you need.
TUVOK: The Doctor comes on Wednesdays. Commander Barclay's visits are erratic.
(He returns to his writings. Janeway strokes his head then kisses it, and 
leaves her present - a picture of the senior staff - on his dresser. It is the Season 5 publicity image.
)
JANEWAY: Goodbye, Tuvok. 
[Admiral Janeway's apartment]
(Janeway opens the door to her visitor.)
JANEWAY: You must be the only Doctor who still makes house calls.
EMH: What are your symptoms?
JANEWAY: I'm perfectly fine. 
EMH: For thirty three years you fought me every time you were due for a physical. Now you ask me to give you one ahead of schedule?
JANEWAY: I'm taking a trip. I just wanted to get our appointment out of the way before I left.
EMH: That's all?
JANEWAY: That's all.
EMH: Hmm. The good news is you're as healthy as you were the first day I examined you. 
JANEWAY: Well, now that's out of the way, have a seat. We didn't get to talk much at the party.
EMH: No, I don't suppose we did.
JANEWAY: So, how's married life?
EMH: Wonderful. You should try it.
JANEWAY: Oh, I think it's a little late for that. Marriage is for the young, like your wife. 
EMH: I can only hope she ages as gracefully as you have. I, of course, will be the same handsome hologram twenty years from now as I am today.
JANEWAY: I've been meaning to ask you. Are you familiar with a drug called Chronexaline?
EMH: We've been testing it at Starfleet Medical to determine if it can protect biomatter from tachyon radiation.
JANEWAY: And? 
EMH: It's very promising. Why do you ask? 
JANEWAY: I need two thousand milligrams by tomorrow afternoon.
EMH: Why?
JANEWAY: That's classified. Will you get it for me?
EMH: Of course, Admiral. You'll have it by oh nine hundred.
JANEWAY: Thank you. 
[Starfleet Communications]
COMPUTER: Download complete.
BARCLAY: This should be everything you need.
JANEWAY: The shuttle?
BARCLAY: Waiting for you at the Oakland shipyard. I wish you'd let me come with you.
JANEWAY: Sorry, Reg, but this is my mission. Besides, if you leave there won't anyone to teach those eager young cadets about the Borg.
BARCLAY: Oh. I made you some fresh tea for the trip. Not that replicated stuff.
JANEWAY: Thank you, for everything. I wouldn't have been able to do this without you.
BARCLAY: Oh, don't remind me. 
[Hillside - Chakotay's grave]
JANEWAY: Any final words of advice for your old captain? Wait, don't tell me. I'm being impulsive. I haven't considered all the consequences. It's too risky. Thanks for the input, but I've got to do what I think is right. 
(She brushes the leaves off the simple inscription. Chakotay, 2329 - 2394)
JANEWAY: I know it wasn't easy living all these years without her, Chakotay. But when I'm through, things might be better for all of us. Trust me. 
[2378 - USS Voyager - Torres-Paris' Quarters]
TORRES: Tom. Tom?
PARIS: I'm sleeping.
TORRES: It's time.
PARIS: For what?
TORRES: I'll give you one guess.
PARIS: Paris to 
(Paris realises he doesn't have his comm. badge on. He grabs it from the window ledge behind the bed.) 
PARIS: Paris to Sickbay, it's time.
EMH [OC]: Relax, Mister Paris. Can she stand?
(Torres is putting on a coat.)
PARIS: Affirmative.
EMH [OC]: Then I suggest you report to Sickbay.
(Paris heads for the door.)
PARIS: What about B'Elanna?
EMH [OC]: Her, too.
PARIS: Right, of course. Maybe we should take the transporter. Hey, wait for me! 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Hmm.
PARIS: What do you mean by hmm?
EMH: You're going to have a very healthy baby, but not tonight.
TORRES: Tell me you're joking. 
EMH: You're experiencing false labour, Lieutenant. 
PARIS: Again?
EMH: As I explained the last time, it's a common occurrence, especially among Klingons.
TORRES: I want this thing out of me now. 
EMH: Misdirected rage. Another common occurrence among Klingons.
PARIS: Can't you induce?
EMH: I wouldn't recommend it
PARIS: If this keeps happening, we'll never get any sleep.
EMH: You think it's bad now? 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: When?
CHAKOTAY: Oh four hundred.
JANEWAY: How many false alarms does that make?
CHAKOTAY: Three that we know of. 
JANEWAY: That baby is as stubborn as her mother.
CHAKOTAY: Harry's starting a pool to see who can guess the actual date and time of birth.
JANEWAY: Tell him to put me down for next Friday, twenty three hundred hours. Anything else?
CHAKOTAY: Crewman Chell's asked about taking over in the mess hall full time.
JANEWAY: Neelix left some pretty big pots and pans to fill. Does Mister Chell feel he's up to the challenge?
CHAKOTAY: Apparently so. He's prepared a sample menu.
JANEWAY: Plasma leek soup? Chicken warp core don bleu?
CHAKOTAY: If his cooking's as bad as his puns, we're in trouble.
JANEWAY: Oh, I don't know. I wouldn't mind giving his Red Alert chili a try. Feel like having lunch?
CHAKOTAY: I'd love to, but I've already made plans. Rain check?
JANEWAY: Absolutely. 
[Cargo Bay two]
(Seven is kneeling on a red and white checkered table cloth and unpacking a picnic hamper.)
CHAKOTAY: What's all this?
SEVEN: A picnic. According to my research, this is an appropriate third date. 
CHAKOTAY: You didn't have to go to this much trouble.
SEVEN: If this makes you uncomfortable I could prepare a less elaborate meal.
CHAKOTAY: No, don't change a thing. This is perfection. 
[Mess hall]
(Icheb is trying his hand at Kal-toh. Kim coughs just before he makes a move. Icheb moves the rod to another place and Kim nods slightly.)
TUVOK: In the interest of fair play, I should inform you that Mister Kim has never defeated me at Kal-toh.
(Icheb places the rod at his first chosen place. The shape does not change.)
KIM: You should've listened to me. 
(Tuvok's rod changes the shape.)
TUVOK: Kal-toh is as much a game of patience as it is of logic. An experienced player will sometimes take several hours to decide his next move, and in some cases even days may be necessary to 
(Icheb places a rod.)
ICHEB: Kal-toh.
KIM: You beat him.
TUVOK: Congratulations.
ICHEB: I'm sure it was just beginner's luck, sir. I'd offer you a rematch, but I'm due in Astrometrics.
TUVOK Another time, perhaps. ;
(Icheb leaves. Kim takes his place opposite Tuvok.)
KIM: He may have to go, but I'm free and feeling lucky.
TUVOK: If you'll excuse me, Ensign. 
(Tuvok leaves the table.)
KIM: It's just a game, Tuvok. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Icheb's an exceptionally bright young man. Did it occur to you that he might simply be a better player?
TUVOK: My loss was the result of another lapse in concentration. 
EMH: I am detecting lower neuropeptide levels.
TUVOK: As I suspected. My condition is deteriorating.
EMH: It's a minor change. We knew it would happen. I simply have to increase your medication.
TUVOK: Thank you, Doctor.
EMH: Commander. I understand your desire for privacy, but maybe it's time we informed the captain.
TUVOK: I will inform her if and when the disorder begins to affect the performance of my duties.
EMH: Of course. 
[Astrometrics lab]
(A game of remote Kadis-kot is in progress.)
SEVEN: Your move. 
NEELIX [on screen] Green, grid twelve ten.
SEVEN: Red, grid three thirteen.
NEELIX [on screen]: Tricky.
SEVEN: How's Brax?
NEELIX [on screen]: Wonderful. Thanks for asking. I know I can never replace his father, but
SEVEN: I have no doubt the boy looks up to you. 
NEELIX [on screen]: Orange, grid ten twelve. I haven't told anyone, but I'm thinking of asking Dexa to marry me.
SEVEN: She'd be wise to accept.
NEELIX [on screen]: That's enough of my love life. How about yours?
SEVEN: I don't have a love life.
NEELIX [on screen]: Oh? What about your relationship with Commander Chakotay?
SEVEN: It's your turn.
NEELIX [on screen]: Actually, it's yours. At least tell me how he liked the picnic. 
SEVEN: It was an enjoyable activity for both of us. Thank you for suggesting it.
NEELIX [on screen]: Any time. What is it?
SEVEN: Long range sensors are detecting extremely high neutrino emissions accompanied by an intermittent graviton flux approximately three light years away.
NEELIX [on screen]: A wormhole?
SEVEN: I'm not sure. I'll need to conduct more scans.
NEELIX [on screen]: We can finish our game tomorrow.
SEVEN: I'll contact you at the usual time. 
[Bridge]
SEVEN: The emissions are occurring at the centre of the nebula. There appear to be hundreds of distinct sources.
KIM: Which could translate to hundreds of wormholes. 
SEVEN: The radiation is interfering with our sensors, but if Ensign Kim's enthusiasm turns out to be justified, it would be the most concentrated occurrence of wormholes ever recorded. 
JANEWAY: Any idea where they lead?
KIM: Not yet, but if just one of them leads to the Alpha Quadrant.
PARIS: Who knows, Harry? It might take us right into your parents' living room.
JANEWAY: Alter course, Mister Paris. Ensign, when you speak to your mother, tell her we may need her to move the sofa. 
[2404 - Starfleet Medical - Tuvok's room]
TUVOK: 71 53 53 31 71 53 53 31 71 53.
PHYSICIAN: Sorry if I pulled you away from something important, sir, but he won't let anyone near him and I thought you might
EMH: You did the right thing. His condition's never been associated with violent behaviour,
PHYSICIAN: He seems more frustrated than violent.
TUVOK: Long range sensors have detected no trace. Her disappearance remains a mystery. I am deeply concerned.
EMH: What are you concerned about, Tuvok? 
JANEWAY: Her disappearance.
EMH: Whose?
TUVOK: 53 31 71 53.
PHYSICIAN: He's been repeating those same numbers over and over again. 53 31 71. It might be a stardate.
EMH: Stardate 53317. If my memory files are accurate, that was the day Captain Janeway was abducted by the Kellidians. Is that who you're talking about, Tuvok? Captain Janeway?
TUVOK: Her disappearance remains a mystery.
EMH: No, you solved that mystery, Tuvok. You rescued the captain and brought her back to Voyager safe and sound. Remember? 
TUVOK: I am deeply concerned, deeply concerned.
PHYSICIAN: Do you think if the Admiral paid him a visit, showed him that she was all right?
EMH: Unfortunately, she's out of town right now. I'm not sure when she'll be back.
TUVOK: She's never coming back! Her disappearance remains a mystery. I'm deeply concerned. Deeply concerned. 
[Barclay's office]
EMH: Voyager to Pathfinder. Come in, Pathfinder.
BARCLAY: Doctor! What a pleasant surp. Oh, I've forgotten about our golf game again, haven't I?
JANEWAY: Relax, Reg, it's not until next week. I'm here because I need to get in touch with Admiral Janeway.
BARCLAY: Oh, she's out of town.
EMH: I know. Did she tell you where she was going?
BARCLAY: Er, I'm afraid it, it never came up. I mean, is something wrong?
EMH: I'm not sure. I paid a visit to Tuvok this morning. He seemed to think that she was in some sort of danger.
BARCLAY: Well, you know better than anyone how confused Tuvok can get.
EMH: Yes, but I've been worried about the admiral, too.
BARCLAY: Why?
EMH: Two days ago, she asked me for a large quantity of an experimental medication. When I asked her why she needed it, she said it was classified.
BARCLAY: Then you shouldn't be telling me about it, should you?
EMH: I spoke to Director Okaro at Starfleet Intelligence. He assured me that the admiral hasn't been involved in any classified work since she began teaching at the Academy. 
BARCLAY: You know how sneaky these Intelligence people can be. Maybe he was just trying to throw you off. 
EMH: Maybe. But still. She's been talking for months about how excited she is to be teaching with you. Then, just as the semester begins, she goes away without even telling you where. Don't you find that a little strange?
BARCLAY: I, I'm sure that there is a perfectly reasonable explanation, Doctor. I'm sorry, I have some p-papers to grade.
EMH: You're stammering, Reg. 
BARCLAY: S-s-so? 
EMH: I haven't heard you do that in years. I think you do know where she is.
BARCLAY: She is one of the most decorated officers in all of Starfleet history, and I'm, I'm sure she can take care of herself.
EMH: You wouldn't be saying that unless she was doing something dangerous.
BARCLAY: You are putting words in my mouth.
EMH: Tell me where she is, Reg. 
[Cavern]
(Admiral Janeway beams in.)
MIRAL: Welcome to the House of Korath, Admiral. 
JANEWAY: I love what he's done with the place.
KLINGON: Kuva'kor li'ju!Q mah. (perhaps.)
MIRAL: PetaQ! DabeQ chu'magh an'noQ. (I think)
JANEWAY: What was that about?
MIRAL: He said your demeanour was disrespectful.
JANEWAY: I hope you told him I didn't mean to be rude.
MIRAL: I told him if he didn't show you more respect, I would break his arm.
JANEWAY: You are your mother's daughter. 
MIRAL: Korath is waiting. We should go in.
JANEWAY: Sorry, but this is where we part ways.
MIRAL: Excuse me?
JANEWAY: You're dismissed, Ensign.
MIRAL: But, Admiral, I really think that
JANEWAY: I can take care of myself.
MIRAL: With all due respect, I've been working on this for six months, and
JANEWAY: And you've done an exemplary job. But it's over. Understood?
MIRAL: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: I happen to know your parents are anxious to spend some time with you. Take a few days leave. Go and see them. 
[Laboratory]
(Korath is working on a weapon when Janeway is escorted in.)
KORATH: A Cardassian disruptor. I've modified it to emit a nadion pulse.
JANEWAY: Impressive, but that's not what I've come for.
KORATH: No. You've come for something far more dangerous.
JANEWAY: Where is it?
KORATH: Somewhere safe.
JANEWAY: I went to a great deal of trouble to get you your seat on the High Council. Now give me what you promised.
KORATH: I've scanned your shuttle. It appears that you've made some interesting modifications. Your shield generator is of particular interest.
JANEWAY: It's not for sale.
KORATH: Then what you want isn't available either.
JANEWAY: We had an agreement.
KORATH: Show the admiral out. 
[2378 - Bridge]
PARIS: Maybe Chell should add Nebula Soup to his menu.
JANEWAY: Shields?
TUVOK: Holding.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Astrometrics.
SEVEN [OC]: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Any more data on those neutrino emissions? 
[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Negative, Captain. I still can't get a clear scan.
JANEWAY [OC]: Distance to the centre?
SEVEN: Six million kilometres. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What is it?
TUVOK: I'm detecting a tritanium signature, bearing three four two, mark five five.
PARIS: Whatever it is, it's too close.
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. 
CHAKOTAY: Is it a ship?
TUVOK: Possibly.
KIM: Another tritanium signature, right on top of us.
(A;Borg Cube looms out of the fog.)
JANEWAY: Tom! 
(They duck underneath it.) 
JANEWAY: Get us out of here now. 
[Borg Queen's chamber]
BORG [OC]: Vessel identified: USS Voyager. We will pursue and assimilate.
QUEEN: No. They haven't compromised our security. Let the vessel continue, for now. I'll keep an eye on them. 
[Briefing room]
(Course projection grid 641.)
TUVOK: There's no evidence that the Cube detected us.
CHAKOTAY: Where is it now?
SEVEN: Approximately three light years away.
PARIS: How could they not have seen us? We came within ten metres of their hull.
TUVOK: The Borg wouldn't knowingly risk a collision. The radiation must have interfered with their sensors as well.
KIM: If they can't detect us, we should go back. 
SEVEN: I wouldn't recommend it. My analysis of the tritanium signature suggests there were at least forty seven Borg vessels inside the nebula.
KIM: We can't just give up on those wormholes. 
JANEWAY: Oh yes, we can.
KIM: What if we try to modify
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Mister Kim. You may be the captain someday, but not today. 
[Corridor]
(Back in normal empty space.)
KIM: Tom, what are you doing when your shift ends?
PARIS: No plans. Why?
KIM: I've been thinking. You and I should have some fun. One last adventure before you get too busy being a father.
PARIS: Did you reserve some holodeck time? 
KIM: I've got a better idea. 
(Kim hands him a PADD.) 
PARIS: This is your idea of fun?
KIM: It'll work. We just need to make a few modifications to the Flyer.
PARIS:: We might as well just hand it over to the Borg. 
KIM: How could that happen with the best pilot in the quadrant at the helm?
PARIS: Nice try.
KIM: If we go to the captain together, she'll be much more likely to approve my plan.
PARIS: I don't want her to approve it.
KIM: Where's your sense of adventure?
PARIS: I left it in that nebula and I'm not going back for it.
KIM: Don't you want to find a way home?
PARIS: I am home, Harry. 
(Paris enters a turbolift. Kim stops the doors closing.) 
KIM: Captain Proton would never walk away from a mission like this. 
PARIS: Captain Proton doesn't have a wife, and a baby on the way. 
[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: If you're here for my daily report, it's not complete.
CHAKOTAY: Actually I'm here in an unofficial capacity. I was wondering if you'd like to get together again.
SEVEN: To do what?
CHAKOTAY: Well, that all depends on your research. Would a quiet dinner be an appropriate fourth date?
SEVEN: I believe it would be a more suitable fifth date.
CHAKOTAY: I'm willing to skip ahead if you are. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: You're fine, aside from some minor inflammation around your biradial clamp. Let me know if it starts to bother you. Is there something else?
SEVEN: Do you remember three months ago, when my cortical node shut down?
EMH: How could I forget. 
SEVEN: You said it might be possible to remove the fail-safe device that was causing the problem.
EMH: Has it been giving you trouble again?
SEVEN: No, but I've reconsidered your offer to extract it.
EMH: I've been hoping you would.
SEVEN: You said it would require several surgeries.
EMH: Actually, in anticipation of your change of heart, I've been studying the problem in more detail. I now believe I can reconfigure the microcircuitry with a single procedure. You'll be free to experience the full ranges of emotions. Everything from a hearty belly laugh to a good cry.
SEVEN: How soon can you do it?
EMH: Today, if you'd like.
SEVEN: My shift ends at eighteen hundred hours.
EMH: It's a date. Speaking of dates. Once the fail-safe is gone, you'll be free to pursue more intimate relationships.
SEVEN: I'm aware of that.
EMH: If you decide you need help with that aspect of your humanity, I'm always at your disposal.
SEVEN: I appreciate that.
EMH: Really?
SEVEN: Yes. But I already have all the help I need.
EMH: Ah, of course. You'll undoubtedly be running more simulations with the Chakotay hologram.
SEVEN: No, actually. I'll see you at eighteen hundred hours. 
[2404 - Laboratory]
KLINGON: Maktah hoon Janeway takt. 
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: I've reconsidered your offer.
KORATH: I thought you might.
JANEWAY: I'll give you the shield emitter, but not until I've inspected the device you're offering. To make sure it's genuine. 
KORATH: You question my honour?
JANEWAY: If you were honourable, you wouldn't have changed the terms of our agreement. Show it to me, or I'm leaving. 
(Korath nods to the Klingon, and a masking forcefield is lowered to reveal the device. Janeway steps into the alcove to scan it.) 
JANEWAY: This will do just fine. 
(She slaps a small gizmo on it and taps her tricorder.)
KORATH: Stop her!
(Admiral Janeway and the mystery device are beamed away amid disruptor beams.) 
[Shuttlecraft]
JANEWAY: Computer, deploy armour. 
(Plates of armour appear over the shuttlecraft.)
JANEWAY: Lay in a course for these coordinates. 
(A Klingon vessel fires at her as she flies away. The comm. beeps.)
JANEWAY: What do you want?
KORATH [on monitor]: You'll pay for your deceit, ghuy'cha! The House of Korath won't rest until you've drowned in your own blood!
JANEWAY: I'd love to stay and chat, but I'm on a tight schedule. 
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Computer, warp six. 
(Later -)
COMPUTER: Approaching designated co-ordinates.
JANEWAY: All stop.
COMPUTER: Warning. Vessel approaching. Vector one two one mark six. 
(A Starfleet vessel drops out of warp above her.)
JANEWAY: Harry. And people are always saying that space is so big.
KIM [on monitor]: Lower your shields, Admiral. Prepare for transport. I'm taking you into custody.
JANEWAY: You have no grounds to take me into custody, Captain.
KIM [on monitor]: Reg told the Doctor everything, and the Doctor told me. Now please, Admiral, stand down.
JANEWAY: On one condition. You let me explain why I'm doing this. 
[USS Rhode Island - Kim's Ready room]
KIM: You have no idea what the consequences would be. 
JANEWAY: I know what the consequences are if we do nothing. So do you. I have a chance to change all that.
KIM: If Starfleet Command knew what you were trying to do 
JANEWAY: You haven't told them?
KIM: The Doctor and I decided to keep things in the family.
JANEWAY: What about your crew?
KIM: I told them I needed to take you back to Starfleet Medical because you'd contracted a rare disease.
JANEWAY: I hope it isn't terminal.
KIM: No, but it has been known to affect judgment.
JANEWAY: I know what I'm doing, Harry.
KIM: Do you? Can you say with absolute certainty that it'll work? Because if you can't. Even if it weren't a violation of every rule in the book, it would still be far too risky. What. 
JANEWAY: I'm remembering a young Ensign who wanted to fly into a Borg-infested nebula, just to explore the remote possibility that we might find a way home.
KIM: If I remember correctly, you stopped me.
JANEWAY: We didn't know then what we know now.
KIM: Our technology may have advanced, but
JANEWAY: I'm not talking about technology, I'm talking about people. People who weren't as lucky as you and me. You said you and the Doctor wanted to keep things in the family. But our family's not complete any more, is it? I'm asking you to trust my judgment, Harry. One last time. 
[2378 - Chakotay's quarters]
(Seven beams in with a bouquet of flowers.)
SEVEN: Am I early?
CHAKOTAY: No, you're right on time. Something wrong with the door?
SEVEN: I didn't think it would be discreet to be seen carrying flowers to the First Officer's quarters.
CHAKOTAY: Your research? I should put these in water. 
(Seven pulls him back and kisses him.) 
SEVEN: I've been told that anticipation of the first kiss is often uncomfortable. I wanted to alleviate the tension.
CHAKOTAY: That was very considerate of you. What about the second kiss? 
SEVEN: I'd have to check the database. It may indicate 
(He kisses her.) 
JANEWAY [OC]: Senior officers report to the bridge. 
CHAKOTAY: Next time we deactivate the comm. system. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
JANEWAY: Judging from the tachyon emissions, some sort of temporal rift.
SEVEN: How's it being generated? 
JANEWAY: That's what we're trying to figure out. 
[2404 - Janeway's shuttle]
KIM: If Starfleet Command finds out I had anything to do with this, they'll demote me back to Ensign.
JANEWAY: You worry too much, Harry. It's turning you grey.
KIM: Propulsion's online, plasma flow's stable. This device of Korath's, it produces too much tachyo-kinetic energy. It could burn itself out by the time you get where you're going. You wouldn't be able to get back.
JANEWAY: I always assumed it was a one way trip.
KIM: You're sure I can't talk you out of this? Right. Stupid question. 
(Janeway hugs Kim.) 
KIM: Kim to the Rhode Island, one to beam back. 
(Kim is beamed away. The USS Rhode Island is long gone when -)
JANEWAY: Computer, activate the chrono-deflector. 
(A green light comes on on the top of the shuttle. Two Klingon ships fire at it)
JANEWAY: Deploy armour. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Ablative generator is offline.
JANEWAY: Evasive pattern beta six. Open a channel to the Rhode Island.
KIM: Harry, I'm under attack. How fast can you get back here? 
[2378 - Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm detecting nadion discharges on the other side of the rift.
CHAKOTAY: Weapons fire? 
TUVOK: It's possible. The signature appears to be Klingon.
JANEWAY: Red alert. 
[2404 - Janeway's shuttle]
(The Rhode Island returns and attacks the Klingons from astern.)
KIM [OC]: Stand by for transport, Admiral.
JANEWAY: You know where I'm going, Harry, and it's not to your ship.
KIM [OC]: Your structural integrity is failing. 
JANEWAY: Just get these Klingons off my tail. Computer, activate the tachyon pulse and direct it to these spatial and temporal coordinates.
(The pulse creates a rift, and the shuttle flies into it.) 
[2378 - Bridge]
TUVOK: There's a vessel coming through the rift. 
CHAKOTAY: Klingon?
TUVOK: No, Federation. 
(Admiral Janeway's shuttle flies out.)
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen. 
ADMIRAL [on viewscreen]: Recalibrate your deflector to emit an anti-tachyon pulse. You have to seal that rift.
JANEWAY It's usually considered polite to introduce yourself before you start giving orders.
TUVOK: Captain, a Klingon vessel is coming through.
ADMIRAL [on viewscreen]: Close the rift. In case you didn't notice, I outrank you, Captain. Now do it. 
(Voyager closes the rift, stopping the Klingon.)
JANEWAY: I did what you asked. Now tell me what the hell is going on. 
[Borg Queen's chamber]
ADMIRAL [on monitor]: I've come to bring Voyager home. 
[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard.
ADMIRAL: It's good to be back. 
(Tuvok and Chakotay are also there.) 
[Ready room]
ADMIRAL: Fresh coffee. 
JANEWAY: Would you like a cup?
ADMIRAL: No, I gave it up years ago. I only drink tea now. I told the curator at the museum that if he wanted to make the ready room more authentic, he should always keep a steaming pot of coffee on the desk. 
JANEWAY: Voyager's in a museum? 
ADMIRAL: Voyager is a museum, on the grounds of the Presidio. On a clear morning, you can see Alcatraz from here.
JANEWAY: You made it back to Earth.
ADMIRAL: Unfortunately, our favourite cup took a bit of a beating along the way. It was damaged during a battle with the Fen Domar.
JANEWAY: Who? 
ADMIRAL: You'll run into them in a few years.
JANEWAY: You know what? I shouldn't be listening to details about the future. 
ADMIRAL: Oh, the almighty Temporal Prime Directive. Take my advice. It's less of a headache if you just ignore it. 
JANEWAY: You've obviously decided to, or you wouldn't be here. 
ADMIRAL: A lot's happened to me since I was you. 
JANEWAY: Well, I'm still me, and this is still my ship. So no more talk about what's going to happen until I decide otherwise. Understood? 
ADMIRAL: All right. Let's talk about the past. Three days ago, you detected elevated neutrino emissions in a nebula in grid nine eight six. You thought it might be a way home. You were right. I've come to tell you to take Voyager back to that nebula.
JANEWAY: It was crawling with Borg. 
ADMIRAL: I've brought technology that'll get us past them. Oh, I don't blame you for being sceptical. But if you can't trust yourself, who can you trust? 
JANEWAY: For the sake of argument, let's say I believe everything you're telling me. The future you come from sounds pretty good. Voyager's home, I'm an admiral. There are ways to defend against the Borg. My ready room even gets preserved for posterity. 
ADMIRAL: So, why would you want to tamper with such a rosy timeline? To answer that, I'd have to tell you more than you want to know. But suffice it to say, if you don't do what I'm suggesting, it's going to take you another sixteen years to get this ship home, and there are going to be casualties along the way. I know exactly what you're thinking.
JANEWAY: You've also become a telepath?
ADMIRAL: I used to be you, remember? You're asking yourself, is she really who she says she is, or is this some sort of deception? For all you know, I could be a member of species 8472 in disguise. Have your people examine my shuttle. Tell them to take a close look at the weapons systems and the armour technology. In the meantime, the Doctor can confirm my identity. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: My scans of the Admiral's cerebral cortex turned up something interesting,
JANEWAY: What is it? 
EMH: I'm not sure. I've never seen this kind of implant before.
JANEWAY: Alien technology?
EMH: The microcircuitry has a Starfleet signature.
ADMIRAL: Of course it does. 
EMH: Admiral?
ADMIRAL: You invented it. Twelve years ago, from my perspective.
EMH: I'm sorry, Admiral, I didn't realise.
ADMIRAL: What, that I was eavesdropping? I may be old, but my hearing's still excellent, thanks to your exemplary care over the years.
EMH: So, this implant I'm going to invent. What does it do? 
ADMIRAL: It's a synaptic transceiver. It allows me to pilot a vessel equipped with a neural interface.
EMH: Fascinating. Tell me, what other extraordinary breakthroughs am I going to make?
JANEWAY: Doctor.
EMH: Sorry, Captain, but you can't blame a hologram for being curious. 
JANEWAY: Just finish your report. 
EMH: Yes, ma'am. My scans indicate the two of you are genetically identical. The admiral is you, approximately twenty six years from now. 
(Seven enters.)
ADMIRAL: Hello, Seven. 
SEVEN: The technology aboard the admiral's ship is impressive. Much of it appears to have been designed to defend against the Borg. 
JANEWAY: Could we install these systems on Voyager?
SEVEN: The stealth technology is incompatible, but I believe we can adapt the armour and weapons. 
ADMIRAL: Well, Captain? 
JANEWAY: Do it. 
Captain's personal log, stardate 54973.4. We've begun outfitting Voyager with Admiral Janeway's upgrades. As soon as the major modifications are complete, we'll reverse course and head back to the nebula. Though I've certainly had some strange experiences in my career, nothing quite compares to the sight of my future self briefing my officers on technology that hasn't been invented yet. 
[Cargo Bay two / Borg Queen's chamber]
SEVEN: Computer, begin regeneration cycle. 
QUEEN: Seven of Nine, tertiary adjunct of Unimatrix Zero One. It's been too long.
SEVEN: What do you want?
QUEEN: Do I need a reason to visit a friend? 
SEVEN: We're not friends. 
QUEEN: No. We're more than that, we're family. And while we're on the subject of old friends, I see that Voyager has just gotten a visitor, and she's come from the future. Tell me why.
SEVEN: You may be able to communicate with me while I'm regenerating, but I'm no longer a drone. I don't answer to you. 
QUEEN: I've extrapolated Voyager's trajectory. I know that you're returning to the nebula. I suggest you alter course. 
SEVEN: Why should we comply?
QUEEN: You've always been my favourite, Seven. In spite of their obvious imperfections. I know how much you care for the Voyager crew. So I've left them alone. Imagine how you'd feel if I were forced to assimilate them. 
SEVEN: Voyager is no threat to the Collective. We simply want to return to the Alpha Quadrant. 
QUEEN: I've no objection to that. But if you try to enter my nebula again, I'll destroy you. 
(Seven collapses.) 
COMPUTER: Warning. Regeneration cycle incomplete. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Her cortical node was exposed to a low-energy EM surge. It could have been much worse. 
SEVEN: It was the Borg Queen. She wanted to make sure I'd be able to deliver a message. She said she'd assimilate Voyager if we attempted to re-enter the nebula. 
JANEWAY: Why is it so important to her?
ADMIRAL: It doesn't matter. She's not going to be able to make good on her threat. 
JANEWAY: I wish I shared your confidence. 
ADMIRAL: You would if you'd had as much experience with the Queen as I have.
JANEWAY: It was one thing to attempt this when we thought it was a secret but if the Borg are monitoring us.
ADMIRAL: There's no guarantee they won't try to assimilate Voyager even if we don't go back into the nebula. 
EMH: Is that supposed to be reassuring? 
ADMIRAL: I'm not saying the Borg aren't dangerous, but from my perspective, they're thirty years behind the times. 
JANEWAY: We shouldn't push our luck.
ADMIRAL: Luck's not going to have anything to do with it. I know, you don't want to hear too much about the future, but let's just say I ran into the Borg a few more times before I made it home. If I hadn't developed technology and tactics that could defeat them, I wouldn't be standing here today. 
JANEWAY: We'll maintain course for the nebula, but we'll stay at Red alert. And I want continuous scans for Borg activity. 
[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: I heard what happened. Are you all right? 
SEVEN: I'm fine.
CHAKOTAY: Because if you need time to rest, I am in charge of the duty roster. 
SEVEN: It would be inappropriate to allow our personal relationship to affect your command decisions.
CHAKOTAY: You're right. This is a time to keep things professional. Report. 
SEVEN: There's no sign of Borg activity within a ten light year radius. 
CHAKOTAY: That's good news, Crewman. 
SEVEN: Yes, sir. But we shouldn't underestimate the Collective. 
CHAKOTAY: The Admiral seems confident we can make it past them. 
SEVEN: Captain Janeway is more cautious.
CHAKOTAY: Our chances would be good with one Kathryn Janeway on the bridge, but with two, I'd bet on this ship any day. If we do make it back to Earth, what are your plans?
SEVEN: I assume Starfleet will want to debrief me. And then I suppose I'll attempt to find a useful position somewhere. You? 
CHAKOTAY: I don't know yet either. But wherever I end up, I'm going to make sure it's in transporter range of you. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: I don't want this whole system crashing because of one faulty relay. Install new ones.
CREWMEN: Yes, ma'am. 
TORRES: And I need an update on the inductor capacitance. 
CREWWOMAN: Yes, Lieutenant. 
PARIS: B'Elanna. 
TORRES: Shouldn't you be on the bridge? 
PARIS: Is there something wrong with the pilot requesting a systems report from the Chief Engineer?
TORRES: The last report I got said the comm. system was working perfectly. 
PARIS: Okay, you caught me. I'm checking up on you. 
TORRES: I'm fine.
PARIS: Your back? 
TORRES: I'm ignoring it. 
PARIS: Well, I would offer to give you a massage, but then everybody would want one. 
TORRES: You know, for a Starfleet fly boy you're pretty sweet. 
PARIS: So how's it going? 
TORRES: This armour technology that the Admiral brought? It's incredible. I hate to sound like Harry, but we might actually make it this time. 
PARIS: Well, you don't seem too happy about that.
TORRES: Oh, I'm happy. It's just that I'd actually gotten used to the idea of raising our daughter on Voyager. And now I might end up delivering her at Starfleet Medical instead of Sickbay. 
PARIS: That wouldn't be so bad, would it? 
TORRES: Not as long as you're with me. And I want the Doctor. I don't want some stranger.
PARIS: You would have to take him offline to keep him away. 
TORRES: If we do make it home, where do you think we'll live? 
PARIS: Well, we could always stay with my parents for a while. You're right. Bad idea. 
TORRES: Of course, it probably doesn't matter to you anyway. You fly boys are all the same. You'll probably take the first piloting assignment that comes along and leave me home to change the diapers. 
PARIS: Not a chance. 
(He kisses her.) 
[Bridge]
(Voyager arrives at the nebula.)
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. 
TORRES [OC]: Go ahead, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Deploy armour. 
TORRES [OC]: Yes, ma'am. 
(The ablative armour unfolds around Voyager. The Queen watches as it enters the nebula. A Cube fires at Voyager.) 
TUVOK: Armour integrity at ninety seven percent. 
(Three Cubes fire at them.)
JANEWAY: Tuvok?
TUVOK: Integrity holding at ninety percent. 
JANEWAY: Maintain course. 
(Voyager is scanned by all three Cubes.)
ADMIRAL: They're looking for ways to adapt. 
TUVOK: Port armour integrity down to fifty percent, forty percent. 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, attack pattern alpha one. Target the lead Cube and fire transphasic torpedoes. 
(One Cube goes KaBOOM!) 
JANEWAY: Target the second Cube. 
(The Queen watches that one go KaBOOM! too. The third breaks off its attack.)
CHAKOTAY: Distance to the centre?
SEVEN: Less than one hundred thousand kilometres. 
(They arrive at a massive ball of energy with a black spider's web nearby.)
JANEWAY: What the hell is it? 
ADMIRAL: Mister Paris, alter course to enter the aperture at coordinates three four six by four two.
JANEWAY: Belay that. I asked you a question. What is it? 
ADMIRAL: The road home. 
SEVEN: It's more than that. It's a transwarp hub. 
JANEWAY: You once told me there were only six of them in the galaxy. 
SEVEN: That's correct. 
JANEWAY: You knew this was here, but you didn't tell me about it. Why? 
ADMIRAL: I'll answer all your questions once we're back in the Alpha Quadrant. 
JANEWAY: Take us out of the nebula. 
PARIS: Captain? 
JANEWAY: You heard me. 
ADMIRAL: I gave you an order, Lieutenant. Proceed to the aperture. 
JANEWAY: This is my bridge, Admiral, and I'll have you removed if necessary. Take us out. 
PARIS: Aye, Captain. 
[Astrometrics lab]
(The armour is gone.)
SEVEN: This hub connects with thousands of transwarp conduits with end points in all four quadrants. It allows the Collective to deploy vessels almost anywhere in the galaxy within minutes. 
TUVOK: Of all the Borg's tactical advantages, this could be the most significant. 
CHAKOTAY: It's no wonder the Queen didn't want us in that nebula. 
JANEWAY: So how do we destroy it? 
SEVEN: The structure is supported by a series of interspatial manifolds. If we could disable enough of them, theoretically the hub would collapse. 
ADMIRAL: This is a waste of time. The shielding for those manifolds is regulated from the central nexus by the Queen herself. You might be able to damage one of them, maybe two. But by the time you moved onto the third, she'd adapt. 
JANEWAY: There may be a way to bring them down simultaneously. 
ADMIRAL: From where, inside the hub? Voyager would be crushed like a bug. 
CHAKOTAY: What about taking the conduit back to the Alpha Quadrant and then destroying the structure from the other side? 
ADMIRAL: This hub is here. There's nothing in the Alpha Quadrant but exit apertures. While you're all standing around dreaming up fantasy tactical scenarios, the Queen is studying her scans of our armour and weapons. And she's probably got the entire Collective working on a way to counter them. So take the ship back into that nebula and go home before it's too late. 
JANEWAY: Find a way to destroy that hub. Let's take a walk. 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I want to know why you didn't tell me about this. 
ADMIRAL: Because I remember how stubborn and self-righteous I used to be. I figured you might try to do something stupid. 
JANEWAY: We have an opportunity to deal a crippling blow to the Borg. It could save millions of lives. 
ADMIRAL: I didn't spend the last ten years looking for a way to get this crew home earlier, so you could throw it all away on some intergalactic goodwill mission. 
JANEWAY: Maybe we should go back to Sickbay. 
ADMIRAL: Why, so you can have me sedated? 
JANEWAY: So I can have the Doctor reconfirm your identity. I refuse to believe I'll ever become as cynical as you. 
ADMIRAL: Am I the only one experiencing d�j� vu here? 
JANEWAY: What are you talking about? 
ADMIRAL: Seven years ago you had the chance to use the Caretaker's array to get Voyager home. Instead, you destroyed it. 
JANEWAY: I did what I knew was right. 
ADMIRAL: You chose to put the lives of strangers ahead of the lives of your crew. You can't make the same mistake again. 
JANEWAY: You got Voyager home, which means I will too. If it takes a few more years then that's
ADMIRAL: Seven of Nine is going to die. 
JANEWAY: What? 
ADMIRAL: Three years from now. She'll be injured on an away mission. She'll make it back to Voyager, and die in the arms of her husband. 
JANEWAY: Husband?
ADMIRAL: Chakotay. He'll never be the same after Seven's death, and neither will you. 
JANEWAY: If I know what's going to happen, I can avoid it.
ADMIRAL: Seven isn't the only one. Between this day and the day I got Voyager home, I lost twenty two crew members. And then of course there's Tuvok. 
JANEWAY: What about him? 
ADMIRAL: You're forgetting the Temporal Prime Directive, Captain.
JANEWAY: The hell with it. 
ADMIRAL: Fine. Tuvok has a degenerative neurological condition that he hasn't told you about. There's a cure in the Alpha Quadrant, but if he doesn't get it in time. Even if you alter Voyager's route, limit your contact with alien species, you're going to lose people. But I'm offering you a chance to get all of them home safe and sound today. Are you really going to walk away from that? 
[Ready room]
TUVOK: Your concern is appreciated, Captain, but premature. It will be several years before the symptoms become serious. Until then, the Doctor can manage my condition with medication. 
JANEWAY: Is it true what the Admiral said? That there's a cure in the Alpha Quadrant?
TUVOK: It is called a fal-tor-voh, and it requires a mind meld with another Vulcan. 
JANEWAY: What about the other Vulcans on Voyager? 
TUVOK: None of them are compatible. 
JANEWAY: But members of your family are? If you knew that returning to the Alpha Quadrant was your only chance for recovery, why didn't you object when I asked you to help find a way to destroy the hub? 
TUVOK: My sense of logic isn't impaired yet. If we succeed, millions of lives will be saved. 
JANEWAY: What about your life?
TUVOK: To quote Ambassador Spock, the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few. 
[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: I appreciate your candour, Admiral, but Captain Janeway is my commanding officer. I won't disobey her.
ADMIRAL: I'm not asking you to. I simply want you to tell her that in your opinion, destroying the hub is too risky, the cost too high.
SEVEN: I can't do that. 
ADMIRAL: Even if it means avoiding the consequences I mentioned?
SEVEN: Now that I know about those consequences, they're no longer a certainty. But even if they were, my death would be a small price to pay for the destruction of the transwarp network. 
ADMIRAL: I have known you for a long time, Seven. Longer than you've known yourself. You are thinking that collapsing the network is an opportunity to atone for atrocities you participated in while you were a drone. It's time to let go of the past and start thinking about your future. 
SEVEN: My future is insignificant compared to the lives of the people we'd be saving. 
ADMIRAL: You're being selfish. 
SEVEN: Selfish? I'm talking about helping others. 
ADMIRAL: Strangers in a hypothetical scenario. I'm talking about real life. Your colleagues, your friends, people who love you. Imagine the impact your death would have on them.
SEVEN: Excuse me, Admiral. I have work to complete. 
[Briefing room]
The EMH and Admiral Janeway are there with all the senior staff.)
TUVOK: Once inside, we'd fire a spread of transphasic torpedoes. 
SEVEN: They'd be programmed to detonate simultaneously. 
TUVOK: If the torpedoes penetrate the shielding, the conduits should begin to collapse in a cascade reaction. In order to avoid the shock wave, we'd have less than ten seconds to exit the hub. 
JANEWAY: A long time ago, I made a decision that stranded this crew in the Delta Quadrant. I don't regret that decision. But I didn't know all of you then, and Voyager was just a starship. It's much more than that now. It's become our home. I know I could order you to carry out this plan and none of you would hesitate for a second, but I'm not going to do that. You know the crewmen who work under you, and you know what your own hearts are telling you. So we're not going to attempt this unless everyone in this room agrees. No one will think less of you if you don't. 
KIM: Captain?
JANEWAY: Go ahead, Harry. 
KIM: I think it's safe to say that no one on this crew has been more obsessed with getting home than I have. But, when I think about everything we've been through together, maybe it's not the destination that matters. Maybe it's the journey. And if that journey takes a little longer so we can do something we all believe in, I can't think of any place I'd rather be, or any people I'd rather be with. 
PARIS: To the journey. 
CHAKOTAY: Hear, hear. 
ALL: To the journey!
(All raise coffee mugs in salute while the Admiral glowers at their backs. Captain Janeway meets her eyes.) 
[Mess hall]
ADMIRAL: Coffee, black. 
JANEWAY: I thought you gave it up. 
ADMIRAL: I've decided to revive a few of my old habits. 
JANEWAY: Oh? What else, besides the coffee? 
ADMIRAL: Oh, well. I used to be much more idealistic. I took a lot of risks. I've been so determined to get this crew home for so many years that I think I forgot how much they loved being together, and how loyal they were to you. It's taken me a few days to realise it. This is your ship, your crew. Not mine. I was wrong to lie to you, To think I could talk you out of something you'd set your mind to. 
JANEWAY: You were only trying to do what you thought was right for all of us. 
ADMIRAL: Well, you've changed my mind about that. And I'd like to help you carry out your mission. Maybe together we can increase our odds. 
JANEWAY: Maybe we can do more than that. There's got to be a way to have our cake and eat it too. 
ADMIRAL: We can't destroy the hub and get Voyager home.
JANEWAY: Are you absolutely sure about that?
ADMIRAL: There might be a way. I considered it once, but it seemed too risky. 
JANEWAY: That was before you decided to revive your old habits. 
(Admiral Janeway smells the coffee.)
ADMIRAL: I don't know why I ever gave this up. 
[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]
(Janeway enters.)
ADMIRAL: It's about time. I'm not getting any younger, you know. 
JANEWAY: You're sure you want to do this? 
ADMIRAL: No, but Voyager isn't big enough for both of us. 
(Janeway uses a hypo on her older self.)
JANEWAY: Good luck, Admiral. 
ADMIRAL: You, too. Captain. I'm glad I got to know you again. 
(Janeway leaves. The Admiral flies her shuttle into the nebula, and into the transwarp hub.) 
[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Any word from the admiral? 
SEVEN: We lost contact as soon as she entered the hub.
CHAKOTAY: Did the Borg give her any trouble? 
SEVEN: Her vessel was scanned by several cubes, but none approached her, sir. 
CHAKOTAY: Are we keeping things professional again today? 
SEVEN: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You're not joking, are you.
SEVEN: No.
CHAKOTAY: What's wrong?
SEVEN: Nothing. I'm just busy. 
CHAKOTAY: I think I've gotten to know you a little better than that. 
SEVEN: I'd prefer it if you didn't speak to me as though we're on intimate terms. 
CHAKOTAY: We are on intimate terms. 
SEVEN: Not any more.
CHAKOTAY: What the hell is going on?
SEVEN: I've decided to alter the parameters of our relationship. 
CHAKOTAY: You mind telling me why? 
SEVEN: We both have dangerous occupations. It's possible one of us could be seriously injured, or worse. I believe it's best to avoid emotional attachments. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you can just flip some Borg switch and shut down your emotions, but I can't.
SEVEN: I suggest you try. It will make things less difficult for you if any harm should come to me. 
CHAKOTAY: Why are you suddenly so concerned about that? Is there something I should know? 
SEVEN: The admiral suggested that your feelings for me will cause you pain in the future. I can't allow that to happen.
CHAKOTAY: Seven, any relationship involves risk. And nobody can guarantee what's going to happen tomorrow. not even an admiral from the future. The only certainty is how we feel about each other here and now. If you think I'm going to let you end this because of what might happen, then you need to get to know me a little better. 
[Sickbay]
(Torres is having labour pains.)
EMH: Try to relax, Lieutenant. 
TORRES: If you tell me to relax one more time I'm going to rip your holographic head off. 
EMH: I hope you don't intend to kiss your baby with that mouth. 
PARIS: Tell me this isn't another false alarm. 
EMH: This isn't another false alarm. 
PARIS: I can't believe it. 
TORRES: Oh, believe it!
PARIS: I might actually win.
TORRES: What?
PARIS: The baby pool. I picked today, fifteen hundred hours. 
TORRES: I'm so glad I could accommodate you&gt; 
EMH: Don't celebrate yet. Klingon labour sometimes lasts several days. (Torres screams) Of course, I'm sure that won't be the case here.
JANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Lieutenant Paris. We're ready to get underway. 
PARIS: Captain, I'm afraid
TORRES: Go.
PARIS: But
TORRES: No buts, fly boy. If this mission is going to succeed we need our best pilot at the helm. Don't worry, the Doctor will be here with me. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Is there a problem, Mister Paris?
PARIS: On my way, Captain. 
(He kisses Torres, strokes her belly and leaves.)
TORRES: Let's get this show on the road. 
[Borg Queen's chamber]
BORG [OC]: Voyager has altered course. Current position spatial grid three six two. Trajectory one one two mark five. 
ADMIRAL: I don't know how you do it. All those voices talking at once. You must get terrible headaches. If you're calling drones to assimilate me, don't bother.
QUEEN: I don't need drones to assimilate you. 
(The Queen aims her tubules into Admiral Janeway's neck, then retracts them.)
ADMIRAL: I'm not actually here, your Majesty. I'm in your mind. I'm 
[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]
ADMIRAL: Using a synaptic interface. If I were you, I wouldn't waste my time trying to trace the signal. 
(It is the interface from Alice.) 
[Borg Queen's chamber]
ADMIRAL: For the moment, it's beyond your abilities. 
QUEEN: What do you want?
ADMIRAL: To make a deal. Captain Janeway thinks I'm here to help her destroy your transwarp network. 
QUEEN: That's beyond your abilities. 
ADMIRAL: Oh, I know that. And I tried to explain it to my naive, younger self, but she wouldn't listen. She's determined to bring down that hub. 
QUEEN: She'll fail. 
ADMIRAL: Yes, but she has weapons that I brought from the future. I believe you're familiar with them. 
QUEEN: Transphasic torpedoes. We will adapt.
ADMIRAL: Eventually. But not before Voyager does a great deal of damage. I'm willing to tell you how to adapt to those weapons now. 
QUEEN: In exchange for what?
ADMIRAL: Send a Cube to tractor Voyager and drag them back to the Alpha Quadrant. 
QUEEN: You're asking me to believe that the incorruptible Kathryn Janeway would betray her own crew. 
ADMIRAL: Not betray them, save them from themselves. I brought technology to help Voyager get home. But the captain's arrogant, self-righteous, and her officers are so blinded by loyalty that they're prepared to sacrifice their lives just to deal a crippling blow to the Borg. 
QUEEN: But you'd never try to harm us.
ADMIRAL: I've become a pragmatist in my old age. All I want is to get that crew back to their families.
QUEEN: You wish to ensure the well-being of your Collective. I can appreciate that. I'll help you. But it'll cost more than you're offering. 
ADMIRAL: What do you want? 
QUEEN: Your vessel and its database.
ADMIRAL: I told you, I'll show you how to adapt to their torpedoes.
QUEEN: Insufficient.
ADMIRAL: If I let you assimilate technology from the future, there's no telling how events would be altered. 
QUEEN: You're willing to alter the future by getting Voyager home now. 
ADMIRAL: Oh yes, but there's a difference. 
QUEEN: Do what all good pragmatists do, Admiral. Compromise. 
ADMIRAL: All right. I'll give you the shuttle. After Voyager arrives safely in the Alpha Quadrant. 
QUEEN: You've already lied to your younger self. How do I know you're not lying to me?
ADMIRAL: I guess you'll just have to trust me. 
QUEEN: That won't be necessary. You underestimate me, Admiral. While we've been talking, my drones have triangulated your signal. 
[Admiral Janeway's shuttle]
ADMIRAL: Computer, deactivate the interface. Deploy armour. 
[Borg Queen's chamber]
(Admiral Janeway is beamed it.)
QUEEN: Very clever. Hiding right on my doorstep. Were you planning to attack us from inside the Unicomplex? Not feeling talkative? 
(The Queen injects her with assimilation nanobots.) 
QUEEN: You and I don't need words to understand each other. 
[Bridge]
(Voyager heads for the transwarp hub.)
JANEWAY: Take us in. 
PARIS: Aye, Captain. 
[Borg Queen's chamber]
BORG [OC]: Voyager has entered aperture eight two three. Access transwarp corridor zero nine. Redirect vessels to intercept at subjunction 
(The Queen gets an electric shock. The Borg voice becomes garbled.) 
BORG [OC]: Corridor. Nine. Voyager. USS. S zero zero nine transwarp transwarp intercept.
(Things go bang around her. She grabs a stanchion to stay upright.)
ADMIRAL: Must be something you assimilated. 
QUEEN: What have you done?
ADMIRAL: I thought we didn't need words to understand each other. 
QUEEN: You've infected us with an neurolytic pathogen. 
ADMIRAL: Just enough to bring chaos to order. 
[Bridge]
SEVEN: The admiral's succeeded, Captain. The conduit's shielding is destabilising. 
JANEWAY: Now, Mister Tuvok. 
(Three torpedoes explode behind them.) 
[Borg Queen's chamber]
QUEEN: Voyager will be destroyed.
ADMIRAL: They're ahead of the shock wave. They'll survive. Captain Janeway and I made sure of that. It's you who underestimated us. 
(The Borg Queen pulls off a malfunctioning arm.)
QUEEN: Sphere six three four. They can still hear my thoughts. 
(The Sphere changes course inside the transwarp hub.)
QUEEN: I may have assimilated your pathogen, but I also assimilated your armour technology. 
(Her left leg falls off. The Queen tries to stand, and fails.) 
QUEEN: Captain Janeway is about to die. If she has no future, you will never exist, and nothing that you've done here today will happen. 
(The Borg Queen dies, and the Central Complex explodes.) 
[Starfleet Command]
ADMIRAL PARIS: What the hell is it?
BARCLAY: A transwarp aperture. It's less than a light year from Earth. 
OFFICER: How many Borg vessels?
BARCLAY: We can't get a clear reading, but the graviton emissions are off the scale. 
ADMIRAL PARIS: I want every ship in range to converge on those coordinates now. 
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir. 
[Bridge]
(The transwarp hub is going KaBOOM. The Sphere is firing at Voyager.) 
TUVOK: Aft armour is down to six percent. 
KIM: Hull breaches on decks six through twelve.
(The Sphere prepares to activate its tractor beam.)
PARIS: I can't stay ahead of them, Captain. 
TUVOK: The armour is failing.
CHAKOTAY: Where's the nearest aperture?
SEVEN: Approximately thirty seconds ahead, but it leads back to the Delta Quadrant. 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, prepare to adjust your heading. 
PARIS: Yes, ma'am. 
[Starfleet Command]
(Starfleet vessels are gathering, including a Galaxy class.)
OFFICER: We've got eighteen ships in position, nine more on the way. 
ADMIRAL PARIS: Open a channel. 
BARCLAY: Open, sir. 
ADMIRAL PARIS: This is Admiral Paris. Use all necessary force. I repeat, all necessary force. 
BARCLAY: Sir, there's a vessel coming through. 
(The Sphere arrives to a barrage of phaser fire.) 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, what's our position? 
PARIS: Right where we expect it to be. 
SEVEN: The transwarp network has been obliterated, Captain. 
JANEWAY: We'll celebrate later. Mister Tuvok? 
(Tuvok fires a torpedo, and the Sphere explodes from the inside out.) 
[Starfleet Command]
ADMIRAL PARIS: Cease fire. 
(Voyager flies out of the debris.)
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We did it.
KIM: We're being hailed.
JANEWAY: On screen. (They see Admiral Paris, Barclay and the officer.)
JANEWAY: Sorry to surprise you. Next time we'll call ahead. 
ADMIRAL PARIS [on viewscreen]: Welcome back. 
JANEWAY: It's good to be here.
ADMIRAL PARIS [on viewscreen]: How did you 
JANEWAY: It'll all be in my report, sir. 
ADMIRAL PARIS [on viewscreen]: I look forward to it. 
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: Thanks for your help, Admiral Janeway. 
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to the bridge. 
(There is a baby crying in background. Kim chuckles.) 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Doctor to Lieutenant Paris. There's someone here who'd like to say hello. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: You'd better get down there, Tom. 
PARIS: Yes, ma'am.
JANEWAY: Mister Chakotay, the helm. 
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
JANEWAY: Set a course for home. 
(The flotilla escorts Voyager to the shining blue and white planet.) 

