Episode Number: 407
The Voyager Transcripts - Year of Hell
Year of Hell
Stardate: 51268.4 - 51252.3
Original Airdate: 5 + 12 November 1997
Day 1
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
(Above a city built on the usual grid system with travel tubes in mid air, a spaceship with six projections is hanging. The projections hold a massive 'jewel' at one end, which magnifies the energy pulse the ship aims at the city. The city is transformed into woodland and open meadows.) 
OBRIST: Temporal incursion is complete. All organisms and man-made objects have been eradicated. 
ANNORAX: Probe the continuum. Has our target event been achieved? 
OBRIST: Negative. Negative target event. I don't understand, sir. We spent months making these calculations. 
ANNORAX: Time is patient, so we must be patient with it. Eradicating a single Zahl colony wasn't enough for a total restoration. We have to work on a larger scale. Take us to the Zahl homeworld. Prepare a new set of calculations. We must erase the entire species from time. Every lifeform, every molecule. 
[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: Space, the great unknown, Only now we're going to know it a little better. Harry? 
(An image of our galaxy from above is divided into grids. Note to the interested, the long wig has finally been discarded and Janeway has Kate Mulgrew's natural shorter length hair.)
CHAKOTAY: Before there were maps and globes, let alone radar and subspace sensors, mariners navigated by the stars. We're returning to that tried and true method, but this time there's a difference. 
JANEWAY: Ensign Kim and Seven of Nine have merged Starfleet and Borg ingenuity to create this new technology.And I'm sure I speak for the entire crew when I say, thank you. Now, how the hell does it work? 
SEVEN: Astrometric sensors measure the radiative flux of up to three billion stars simultaneously. The computer then calculates our position relative to the centre of the galaxy. 
KIM: This mapping technology is ten times more accurate than what we've been using. Seven, will you do the honours? We've plotted a new course home. 
SEVEN: By my estimates this trajectory will eliminate five years from your journey. 
NEELIX: Our journey. Nice work, Seven. 
TORRES: That region of space we're about to enter. It looks like it has a lot of M-class planets. 
SEVEN: It does. Spatial grid zero zero five. Primary species, the Zahl. 
TUVOK: What do we know about this species? 
SEVEN: Technologically advanced but nonconfrontational. Their resistance quotient is quite low. 
CHAKOTAY: Thank you all for coming. We've got a lot of work to do, so 
EMH: I'd like to say a few words if I may. I've prepared a speech for this occasion. When I was first activated on Stardate 48315, and I found myself mano a mano with the Delta Quadrant, I didn't think we'd survive a week, let alone three years. There was strife. There was discord. You were all at each others throats. But over time, I've had the pleasure and pride of watching this crew learn to work together as colleagues, even friends. 
PARIS: Hear, hear. 
EMH: Who would have thought that this eclectic group of voyagers could actually become a family? Starfleet, Maquis, Klingon, Talaxian, hologram, Borg, even Mister Paris. Granted, we've had our share of difficulties. One might say, we've seen the best of times and the worst of times. I'd now like to recount some of those times from my unique perspective. Under the category of best of times, I invite you all to recall the moment when I 
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge to captain. 
JANEWAY: Janeway here. 
CREWMAN [OC]: We're being hailed. A vessel off the port bow. 
CHAKOTAY: On our way. 
EMH: Perhaps we could all reconvene later? 
[Bridge]
LANG: They're firing on us, Captain. 
TUVOK: It's a small vessel, fifteen lifeforms aboard. Low warp capacity, limited armaments. They pose no threat. 
JANEWAY: Open a channel. Good day, sir. Have we offended you in some way? 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You will reverse course immediately. This region is in dispute. You have no business in Krenim space. 
JANEWAY: I was under the impression we were entering Zahl territory. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: The Zahl have no legitimate claim here. They have taken what is ours. Reverse course or be destroyed. 
JANEWAY: With all due respect, unless you've got something a little bigger in your torpedo tubes, I'm not turning around. But I'm certainly willing to discuss this issue with you. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: No discussion! No compromise! 
(Transmission ends.)
TUVOK: They are in retreat. 
CHAKOTAY: His bark's obviously worse than his bite. 
JANEWAY: He seems rather intent. Let's go to yellow alert. Maintain our course. Maybe the Zahl can give us some answers. 
Day 4
[Briefing room]
(Voyager hangs nose to nose with two large spaceships. Unlike the Krenim and their severe uniforms, the Zahl go for a more casual look.)
ZAHL OFFICIAL: As long as you travel in Zahl territory you travel among friends. I apologise for your mishap with the Krenim. 
JANEWAY: It was hardly traumatic, but I am curious. The Krenim claim this region as their own. 
ZAHL OFFICIAL: The Krenim dominated this space many years ago. They possessed deadly weapons based on temporal science, and it kept them in power for a long time. But a generation ago we fought the Krenim. We defeated them and took back the planets that they had annexed, dismantled their military forces. Their ships still wander our territory making grandiose claims. Don't let them trouble you. Now, tell me about Voyager. A single ship alone, half a galaxy from home. How exciting for you. 
KIM [OC]: Bridge to Captain. Sorry to interrupt, but the Krenim vessel is back. They're demanding to speak with you. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hello again. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You've ignored our warnings, and now you consort with our enemy. 
ZAHL OFFICIAL: Leave this space or I'll seize your vessel and send you home in a cargo container. 
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, please. Believe me, we're not conspiring against you. 
KIM: Captain, there's a spatial distortion heading towards us. Whatever it is, it's huge. Five light years across and it's expanding. 
TUVOK: Tracking it's origin. A vessel near the Zahl homeworld. 
ZAHL OFFICIAL: What? 
TUVOK: It appears to be a massive build-up of temporal energy. Some kind of space-time shock wave. 
JANEWAY: Tom. 
PARIS: It's destabilising our warp field. I've lost engines. 
JANEWAY: Shields to full. Secure primary systems. All hands, brace for impact.
(The shock wave makes the Zahl ships vanish and the small Krenim ship turns into a big battle cruiser. As it passes through Voyager, the Zahl official disappears and Ms Lang is lying on the deck.)
CHAKOTAY: She's dead. 
TUVOK: Shields at seventy percent. The Krenim are firing again. We're being hailed. 
JANEWAY: It's about time. On screen. We've done nothing to provoke these attacks. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Your presence in our space is provocation enough. 
JANEWAY: We've been trying to communicate with your vessels but the only answer I get is weapons fire. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: State your identity. 
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: And your reason for violating our borders? 
JANEWAY: We're simply trying to get home. If you'd kindly allow us to pass through 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: No. You will submit to the Krenim Imperium. I would prefer to seize your vessel before it is too badly damaged. Surrender now and I will forego the execution of your crew. 
JANEWAY: I don't respond well to threats. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Then prepare to be boarded. 
(Transmission ends.)
JANEWAY: All hands, battle stations. This is turning into the Week of Hell. 
TUVOK: They are charging weapons. Three seconds to impact. 
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. 
KIM: Direct hit to our secondary hull. 
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand why these torpedoes are ripping right through our shields. 
TUVOK: Their weapons are chronoton based. They're penetrating our shields because they're in a state of temporal flux. 
JANEWAY: Then lets exercise the better part of valour. Get us out of here, warp six. 
PARIS: Warp six. No sign of pursuit. 
JANEWAY: Damage report. 
TUVOK: Fifteen wounded. Main power is down. We've lost environmental control on decks seven and eight. The computer is offline. 
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, do we have any sensors left? 
KIM: Short range only. 
JANEWAY: Commander, put the ship on twenty four hour tactical alert. Tuvok, analyse whatever data we've got on those chronoton torpedoes. See if you can modify our shielding. When those Krenim attack again, I want to be ready. 
[Krenim Timeship - Annorax's office]
(Annorax is studing a small object held in a clear pyramid.) 
ANNORAX: Enter. 
OBRIST: Sir, you were correct. The Zahl homeworld was the focal point. Its erasure has produced a complete temporal restoration. 
ANNORAX: Complete? 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
ANNORAX: If I told you to count the stars in the cosmos would the task ever be complete? 
OBRIST: Sir? 
ANNORAX: Our attempts may be sufficient. They may be even relatively successful, but they will never be complete. Choose your words with more precision. 
OBRIST: My apologies. 
ANNORAX: What were the exact results? 
OBRIST: The Krenim Imperium has been restored to power. Our territory now includes eight hundred and forty nine inhabited worlds spanning five thousand parsecs. 
ANNORAX: Counter indications? 
OBRIST: Negligible. No superior enemy forces, no unexpected diseases. Calculations indicate a ninety eight percent restoration. Our race is thriving once again. 
ANNORAX: The, er, the colony at Kyana Prime. That was restored as well? 
OBRIST: No, sir. In this timeline the Imperium does not extend that far. 
(Annorax puts down the pyramid.)
ANNORAX: Then our mission has failed. Begin calculations for the next incursion. 
OBRIST: Sir, we have just accomplished the impossible. A ninety eight percent restoration. Another incursion, even a minor one, could undermine everything. We should dismantle this weapon and rejoin our people. 
ANNORAX: No, not until every colony, every individual, every blade of grass is restored. 
OBRIST: You said yourself our task will never be complete. Please. We should be satisfied with what we have accomplished. For two hundred years, we have never come this close. 
ANNORAX: Not close enough. 
OBRIST: If I may speak my thoughts. Many among the crew are convinced that you have lost your objectivity. They think your quest for precision is unrealistic. Sir, we will never restore one hundred percent of what we had. We can manipulate the time continuum for another ten centuries. It will never happen. 
ANNORAX: Return to your station and begin a new set of calculations. Is that clear? 
OBRIST: Perfectly. 
ANNORAX: You surprise me, Obrist, After so many years, you still perceive time through conventional eyes. Never is a word that has no meaning here. As long as we stay on this vessel, protected from space-time, we have all eternity to accomplish our mission. 
OBRIST: Of course, sir. 
Day 32
[Bridge]
(Small pieces of debris littler the deck.)
JANEWAY: Return fire. 
TUVOK: Weapons are down. My attempt to modify the shielding was unsuccessful. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, during that last exchange we did some damage. The Krenim's aft shields are down. They're vulnerable. 
PARIS: We've got to hit them, now. 
KIM: With what? Phaser banks are burned out, torpedo launchers are offline. 
EMH [OC]: Doctor to bridge. We've got a power overload in Sickbay. I need an engineer down here right away. 
CHAKOTAY: Stand by, Doctor. Harry, can you handle it from here? 
KIM: No, sir. The overload's spreading. Half that deck is going to blow in less than five minutes. 
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, get your patients out of there. All hands, this is the bridge. Emergency evacuation deck five. 
JANEWAY: How many torpedoes do we have left? 
TUVOK: Eleven. 
JANEWAY: Arm four of them. Stand by to open the launch doors. We're going to deploy them like mines. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Tom, I need your finesse. Let the Krenim get within five thousand metres of us. 
PARIS: No problem. 
[Deck five]
EMH: Keep moving. Quickly, please, move quickly. 
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in three minutes. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Torpedoes armed and ready. 
PARIS: They're within range. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok, do it. 
(The massive Krenim battleship flies into the photon torpedoes and goes KaBOOM!)
PARIS: Got him! 
KIM: The conduits on deck five are overloading. Thirty seconds till they blow. 
[Deck five]
EMH: Keep moving! Please hurry. That's it. 
(The EMH gets his people to a Jefferies tube hatch at the end of the corridor.)
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse; 
[Bridge]
COMPUTER: 
In twenty seconds.
KIM: Fifteen seconds! 
[Jefferies Tube deck five]
(The EMH holds the hatch open as two people run along the corridor.)
COMPUTER: Warning, structural collapse in ten seconds. Warning, structural collapse in five, four, three, two, one.
(He lets the hatch close. An explosion rips along the whole starboard side of the main section, throwing the bridge crew to the deck.) 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report! 
KIM: Sections ten through fifty three on deck five are gone. 
JANEWAY: Casualties? 
TUVOK: Reports are coming in. Twelve wounded, many of them critically. The Doctor is setting up a triage facility in the mess hall. Two crew members were killed in the breach. 
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Assemble a security team. Survey the ship deck by deck. I want a full damage report. I'll be in my ready room. You have the bridge. What's left of it. 
[Ready room]
(Also with debris on all surfaces. It is dark, just one light flickering.)
JANEWAY: Come in. Sorry about the mess. 
CHAKOTAY: You should see my place. They haven't looked as bad since my old Academy days. 
JANEWAY: Is there something on your mind? 
(She hands him her favourite teapot, still intact.)
CHAKOTAY: Yes, but you're not going to like it. 
JANEWAY: That's never stopped you before. Broken.
(The desk computer.)
CHAKOTAY: I'll be blunt. Our strategy is failing. It was a good idea to try and create temporal shielding but it isn't working. 
JANEWAY: Not yet, but it will. With every attack we're getting more information about their chronoton weapons. 
CHAKOTAY: How many more attacks will it take? Before long, there won't be a ship left to protect. 
JANEWAY: We don't have a choice. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe we do. 
JANEWAY: Here comes the part I'm not going to like. 
CHAKOTAY: We should consider leaving the ship behind, breaking the crew into smaller groups. Escape pods, shuttles, each one with its own course. If all goes well, we'll rendezvous on the other side of Krenim space. 
JANEWAY: Then what? 
CHAKOTAY: We'll cross that bridge when we come to it. But at least we'd be increasing our chances of survival. 
JANEWAY: Abandon ship? The answer's no. I'm not breaking up the family, Chakotay. We're stronger as a team. One crew, one ship. The moment we split apart, we lose the ability to pool our talents. We become vulnerable. We'll get picked off one by one. Now I say we make our stand. Together. 
CHAKOTAY: To be honest, I wasn't too fond of the idea myself. 
JANEWAY: As long as Voyager's in one piece, we stay. 
CHAKOTAY: We stay. This looks like it stayed in one piece. Where does this go? 
JANEWAY: My lucky teacup. Right over here. 
(Whumph!)
PARIS [OC]: Red alert. We're under attack. Two Krenim warships off the port bow.
(Janeway puts her lucky teacup on the desk, but vibrations from the attack shake it onto the deck, where it breaks. Can I ask a question here? What happened to the report on the Krenim's weaponry that Kes compiled after the events of 'Before and After'?) 
Day 47
[Turbolift]
TORRES: When are they going to get us out of here? 
KIM: Try to relax. Let's get back to the game. Grace Kelly. Cat burglars. The Riviera. Name the title and the male lead. 
TORRES: To Catch A Thief. 
KIM: Right. 
TORRES: Clark Gable. 
KIM: Wrong. Cary Grant. 
TORRES: I've seen the holographic version twice. It's Clark Gable. 
KIM: I think you're getting them confused because they have the same initials. It was Grant. 
TORRES: No more twentieth century entertainment. I'm terrible at it. My turn. Category, athletics. 
KIM: Fire away. 
TORRES: A notorious athlete, Parrises Squares championship finals, er, controversial decision. 
KIM: M'Kota R'Cho. The first and only Klingon to play the game. During the finals of 2342 one of the referees called a penalty against his team. R'Cho strangled him. 
TORRES: Impressive. 
KIM: You're looking at a true sports aficionado. Let's see, how about interstellar history? 
TORRES: Oh, great. You pick the one subject I almost failed at the Academy. Go ahead and ask. Ow! 
KIM: Are you all right? 
TORRES: It just hurts a little. Feels like we've been here for days. 
KIM: Actually, it's been about six hours. Try to hang on, B'Elanna. The emergency crews are going find us any minute. Come on, hurry up! 
TORRES: Go ahead and ask your stupid question before I pass out and you don't have anybody to play with. 
KIM: Okay. Er, it's a famous ship. Er, pre-warp civilisation. Er, Montana. Er, second stage had chemical engines. 
TORRES: Another clue. 
KIM: Vulcans. Er, Earth, First Contact.;
TORRES: Oh, right, right. Er, er, er, Zephram Cochrane's ship. What was it called? Oh, it's on the tip of my tongue. Ow!
KIM: Okay, here, here, you'd better lie down now. Enough trivia for now. 
TORRES: No, no, I'm going to get this one. 
(The turbolift doors are crowbarred open.)
SEVEN: Lieutenant. Ensign. 
TORRES: It's about time. What happened to the turbolift? 
SEVEN: During the last attack nineteen main power relays were severed. The entire turbolift system is non-operational. 
[Corridor]
TORRES: Get me to the Jefferies tube network on deck eleven. The EPS manifold must have taken a hit, too. 
KIM: Seven of Nine can go take a look. We have to get you to the Doctor. 
TORRES: All right. 
SEVEN: The Phoenix. 
KIM: What? 
SEVEN: The correct response to your query. The vessel Ensign Kim was describing. It was designated the Phoenix. 
KIM: Not bad. I didn't realise you knew so much about Earth history. 
SEVEN: I don't, but the Borg were present during those events. 
KIM: Really. 
SEVEN: It's a complicated story. Perhaps another time. 
TORRES: I think so. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Transverse bulkheads. We've set up emergency forcefields between all decks and every section. In the event of a cataclysmic breach most of us will be protected. 
JANEWAY: Ingenious. 
CHAKOTAY: Actually, you can thank Mister Paris. He came up with the idea. 
PARIS: I was inspired by an ancient steamship, the Titanic. The engineers of the day constructed a series of special bulkheads, sort of like a honeycomb, that would lower into place if they suffered a major hull breach. In theory, they could stay afloat even with half the ship filled with water. 
JANEWAY: The Titanic? As I recall, it sank. 
PARIS: Well, let's just say I've made a few improvements.
JANEWAY: I knew your fixation with history would come in handy someday. Good work. 
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Lieutenant Paris. 
PARIS: Go ahead, Doc. 
EMH [OC]: Report to the mess hall at once. More wounded are one the way. 
PARIS: I'll be right there. I'm a popular guy today. 
[Jefferies tube]
(Seven forces open a stuck hatch and sees the same sight that Kes did there back in Before and After. She scans the chronoton torpedo.)
SEVEN: Seven of Nine to Tuvok. 
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok here. 
SEVEN: There is an undetonated chronoton torpedo lodged in the starboard Jefferies tube on deck eleven, section two. The warhead is still active. 
TUVOK [OC]: Do not attempt to disarm it. Hold your position and wait for my arrival. Is that clear? 
SEVEN: Arrive quickly. 
[Mess hall]
PARIS: I've stopped the internal bleeding. You're going to be okay. 
TORRES: Is that your expert opinion? 
PARIS: That's a promise. I know it still hurts. 
TORRES: It's all right. 
PARIS: You've got a ruptured vertebra. I'll see if I can repair it. 
EMH: Mister Paris, your assistance please. 
PARIS: Give me a minute. 
EMH: Now, Lieutenant. 
PARIS: I'll be right back. Don't go anywhere. 
EMH: In case you hadn't noticed, B'Elanna is not the only patient here. 
PARIS: She's in pain. 
EMH: But no longer in danger of dying. That is the first rule of medical triage. Make sure the patient will live, then move on to the next one. Emotional detachment is essential otherwise, you risk impairing your judgment. 
PARIS: I understand. 
EMH: You could be seeing more of your friends in here soon. If you can't handle itm I'll find another assistant. You can leave. 
PARIS: Physician, heal thyself. 
EMH: What's that supposed to mean? 
PARIS: It seems to me that you're the one who's getting emotional around here. 
EMH: Several weeks ago, just before the conduits on deck five breached, I saw Ensign Strickler and Crewman Emmanuel at the end of a corridor. They were trying to reach the Jefferies tube. I kept the hatch open, waited for them as long as I could, but time ran out. I had no choice but to seal the hatch. 
PARIS: It must have been very hard for you. 
EMH: My point is, it could have been worse. Had I lost my objectivity, I might have kept the hatch open and everyone would have perished. This man has damaged lung tissue. Treat him with inaprovaline. 
[Jefferies tube]
TUVOK: If we attempt to dislodge the torpedo or move it with the transporters, it will most likely detonate. 
SEVEN: Can we disarm it? 
TUVOK: No. The warhead is already destabilising. I estimate it will explode in less than two minutes. If we re-route emergency power to this junction and erect a level ten force field it should be enough to contain the explosion. We must hurry. 
SEVEN: If I can determine the exact temporal variance of this torpedo it will help us perfect the temporal shielding. 
TUVOK: There is no time. 
SEVEN: We may never have this opportunity again. 
TUVOK: I am giving you an order. Now! 
SEVEN: The temporal variance is one point four seven microseconds. 
TUVOK: Excellent work, but if you disobey my orders again I will be forced to
(The torpedo explodes. Tuvok shields Seven with his body as the flames rush down the Jefferies tube. Now we know why Kes is being ignored. It is so Seven can take the credit for saving the ship.) 
Day 65
Captain's log, stardate 51268.4. This morning's attack destroyed the power grid on deck eleven. No casualties this time, but the replicator system was badly damaged. We've gone to emergency rations. As a result, the situation has gotten a little worse. Environmental controls continue to fail. Seven decks have been rendered uninhabitable and we've had to relocate the crew. Quarters are close, nerves are frayed, and I'm not sure what's more difficult to maintain. Voyager's systems or the crew's morale. What's important is that we're together, working toward a single goal. Survival. 
[Bridge]
(Chakotay holds out a pocket watch. He is growing a moustache and beard.)
CHAKOTAY: Happy birthday. 
JANEWAY: Happy what? 
CHAKOTAY: Today is May twentieth. 
JANEWAY: Is it? I thought we were still in April. Guess I've lost track of the time. 
CHAKOTAY: Well, this should help. 
JANEWAY: It's beautiful. 
CHAKOTAY: Nineteenth century, mechanical movement. It's a replica of the chronometer worn by Captain Cray of the British Navy, His ship was hit by a typhoon in the Pacific. Everyone back in England thought they were killed, but eight months later Cray sailed his ship into London harbour. There wasn't much left of it, a few planks, half a sail, but he got his crew home. 
JANEWAY: I appreciate the sentiment, but I can't keep this. Recycle it. We can't afford to waste energy on nonessentials. 
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, I replicated this months ago. I've been saving it. I wanted you to have it. 
JANEWAY: That watch represents a meal, a hypospray, or a pair of boots. It could mean the difference between life and death one day. 
[Tuvok's quarters]
(Tuvok dips his Vulcan cut-throat razor into the water and starts to shave himself. He nicks his jawline. The mirror above the bowl is shattered. He feels for the towel. The doorbell chimes.)
TUVOK: Enter. 
SEVEN: Reporting for duty, Lieutenant. 
TUVOK: What is our agenda? 
SEVEN: After we make your customary rounds, I'd like to take you to deflector control. I had an inspiration last night about the temporal shielding. 
TUVOK: Excellent. 
SEVEN: You've been damaged. 
TUVOK: A minor laceration. 
SEVEN: I have offered to assist you with your personal grooming. 
TUVOK: There are some tasks I would rather perform myself. 
SEVEN: Unacceptable. You're risking further injury. 
TUVOK: Shaving is hardly a life-threatening activity. Tell me about your inspiration. 
SEVEN: We've been trying to match our shields to the temporal variance of their torpedoes, but I believe we must also match the deflector array to the inverse of that variance. 
(Tuvok goes into his main room and sits. Seven brings his boots for him to put on.)
TUVOK: Fascinating. When will the deflectors be ready? 
SEVEN: They're ready now, but the modifications are untested. 
TUVOK: Then our rounds can wait. Take me to deflector control. 
[Corridor]
(Tuvok holds Seven's arm as she leads the blind Vulcan along the corridor.)
BROOKS: Seven. 
SEVEN: Ensign. 
TUVOK: A friend of yours? 
SEVEN: My cabin mate. As a Borg, I was accustomed to cohabitating with thousands of other drones, but I find it significantly more difficult to live with a single human. 
TUVOK: In what way? 
SEVEN: Ensign Brooks is negligent. She leaves her equipment lying around the quarters and her clothing on the floor. 
TUVOK: Indeed. I have found that most humans are less than meticulous when it comes to their domestic habits. 
SEVEN: Indeed. 
NEELIX: Mister Vulcan, sir. A tactical question if I may? 
(Neelix is in Starfleet uniform.)
TUVOK: You may. 
NEELIX: We're just about done rebuilding the internal security sensors, and we're ready to programme the audio signal. Do you want it to say intruder alert, or should we try something a little more dramatic, like Warning, intruder alert or, Intruders among us! Danger! Danger! Intruders among us? 
TUVOK: Intruder alert will suffice. 
NEELIX: Yeah, go with the classic. Understood, sir.
(Neelix walks on.) 
TUVOK: And you believe you have difficulties. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: All hands to battle stations. Krenim vessels approaching. Repeat, all hands to battle stations. 
TUVOK: Go to deflector control and bring the new shields online. We will test them in battle. 
[Bridge]
(The bridge is now messier than a teenager's bedroom, with huge chunks of superstructure hanging down. Tuvok feels his way to his station.)
TUVOK: Computer, activate tactile interface. 
CHAKOTAY: Weapons status? 
TUVOK: Phasers are still online. Torpedo launchers are still inoperative. 
PARIS: The Krenim are within visual range. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
TUVOK: Seven's modified temporal shields should be online in a moment. 
KIM: It's a warship. 
JANEWAY: You know the routine. 
PARIS: Evasive manoeuvres. 
KIM: They're matching course. 
CHAKOTAY: Hold them off as long as you can. Bridge to Seven of Nine. 
[Deflector control]
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Where are those shields? 
SEVEN: Stand by. 
[Bridge]
KIM: They're charging weapons. 
JANEWAY: Seven, we could a little of that Borg efficiency right about now. 
PARIS: I can't shake them. 
KIM: They're targeting the bridge. 
[Deflector control]
SEVEN: Temporal shielding is online. 
[Bridge]
KIM: They're firing. 
CHAKOTAY: Full port thrusters.
(One torpedo misses, the other hits.) 
TUVOK: Temporal shields are holding. No damage. 
JANEWAY: Hail them. 
TUVOK: Channel open. 
JANEWAY: Krenim vessels, this is the captain of Voyager. You may have noticed we have a defence against your torpedoes now. I suggest you stand down. 
TUVOK: No response. 
JANEWAY: Their mistake. Bring the ship about. We're going through their space whether they like it or not. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: We are within range of the Garenor homeworld. 
ANNORAX: Set temporal coordinates. Full power to the weapon. Prepare for total erasure of the species. 
OBRIST: Targeting the focal point. Ready. 
ANNORAX: Fire. 
(The ray spreads around the planet then off into space.)
OBRIST: Temporal incursion in progress. 
ANNORAX: Trace elements? 
OBRIST: Diminishing. 
ANNORAX: Counter indications? 
OBRIST: None so far. Organisms and structures are being eradicated. 
ANNORAX: Track the temporal wavefront as it passes through the system. I want to monitor every change in the timeline as it occurs. 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Captain, the Krenim warship is in pursuit, but their weapons are not powered. 
JANEWAY: They don't know what to do with us now that we're shielded against their torpedoes. 
KIM: Captain, there's some kind of spatial distortion heading toward us. Sensor readings are erratic. I can't identify the phenomenon. 
CHAKOTAY: What's the source? 
KIM: Unknown. But it originated approximately twenty light years from our position. It looks like a shockwave in the fabric of space-time. 
JANEWAY: Tom, get us out of here. 
PARIS: We'll never outrun it, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Maybe our new shields will help. All hands, brace for impact. 
TUVOK: You were correct, Captain. The temporal shielding has protected us. The wave front has passed. 
KIM: Captain. 
(The Krenim warship shrinks before their eyes.)
CHAKOTAY: Report. 
KIM: It's definitely a Krenim ship. Identical hull markings, same biospectral frequency, but it's half the size. Limited fire power. 
JANEWAY: What happened to the warship? 
PARIS: I'm not picking it up on long range sensors. 
CHAKOTAY: It looks like this entire part of space has changed somehow. The last time I checked, this region was filled with Krenim colonies and vessels. I just ran a scan and sensors show no colonies and just a handful of Krenim ships. 
JANEWAY: Harry, transfer all your sensor data about that shockwave to the Astrometrics lab. 
KIM: Yes, ma'am. 
JANEWAY: Tell Seven of Nine to meet me there. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, Astrometrics took heavy damage a few days go. It's offline. 
JANEWAY: Well, let's get it back online. It appears that the Krenim Imperium has vanished. Our troubles could be over and I'd like to find out why. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: Something went wrong. The entire Krenim Imperium, it's reverted to a pre-warp state. 
ANNORAX: Not possible. Our calculations were perfect. 
OBRIST: I may have an explanation. There's an anomalous temporal reading twenty light years from here. It's coming from a vessel. 
ANNORAX: What vessel? 
OBRIST: Component zero four nine beta. A ship called Voyager. 
ANNORAX: That ship was classified as an inert component. It shouldn't be generating a temporal field. 
OBRIST: But it is. And it was enough to throw off our calculations. 
ANNORAX: Take me to them. 
Day 70
[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Sensors are online. Power levels are stable. 
JANEWAY: Is the astrometric database still intact? 
SEVEN: Yes. 
JANEWAY: Display the scans we made of this region before the temporal shockwave hit. 
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five. 
(With four;coloured areas, one much larger than the others.)
JANEWAY: The Krenim Imperium. Over two hundred star systems, nine hundred planets, thousands of warp capable vessels. And now, after the shockwave, everything seems to have changed. Run a new scan. 
SEVEN: Spatial grid zero zero five. 
(The big area shrinks.)
JANEWAY: Same space, different configuration, exactly as Chakotay said. The Imperium appears to have been reduced to a few planets, and a smattering of vessels. It appears that someone or something has altered history. But why weren't we affected? 
SEVEN: Perhaps we were protected from the changes by our temporal shielding. 
JANEWAY: So the question remains. What caused that shockwave in the first place? See if you can track it back to its origin. 
SEVEN: The shockwave emanated from a planet twenty light years away. The Garenor homeworld. 
JANEWAY: The Garenor? We passed their planet three weeks ago. 
SEVEN: The planet is no longer populated. 
JANEWAY: What? 
SEVEN: Astrometric data indicate that the instant the shockwave appeared the Garenor species vanished. 
JANEWAY: Erased from history. 
SEVEN: Captain? 
JANEWAY: I'm no authority on time travel, in fact I've made it my goal in life to avoid it, but this sounds to me like a causality paradox. Think about it. A temporal shock wave eliminates a single species and all of history changes as a result. 
SEVEN: An intriguing theory. Perhaps the Krenim are responsible. They do possess temporal technology. 
JANEWAY: But why would they alter history to undermine themselves? No, we're still missing a big piece of the puzzle. Run another scan of the 
(Rumble! The Time ship dwarfs Voyager as it arrives overhead.) 
[Krenim Timeship- Bridge]
OBRIST: Scanning the vessel. Their defensive shielding is generating a level nine temporal disruption. 
ANNORAX: Collect samples. Two lifeforms, ten square metres of the hull. 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
ANNORAX: Disable their shielding. Prepare to initiate a temporal incursion. 
[Bridge]
KIM: That entire vessel's in a state of temporal flux. It's like they exist outside space-time. 
PARIS: They're scanning us. 
(Chakotay and Paris disappear.)
JANEWAY: Get a lock on them. 
KIM: I'm trying, but I can't isolate their signals. 
TUVOK: We're being hailed. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: State your identity. 
JANEWAY: I'm Captain Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. Who are you, and where are my men? 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: I am Annorax of the Krenim Imperium. We've transferred your crewmen to my vessel for further analysis. Your ship does not come from this quadrant. 
JANEWAY: We come from Earth, a planet sixty five thousand light years from here. We're on our way home. 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: I see. 
JANEWAY: We've been observing some rather unusual events in the region. It seems your Imperium never existed. Perhaps you could shed some light on this? 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: That doesn't concern you. What is important is that you understand that I bear you no hostility. But you have diverted me from my mission. 
JANEWAY: Your mission? You're responsible for the changes in the timeline. 
ANNORAX [on viewscreen]: You're a long way from your world. In a manner of speaking, so am I. Unfortunately, only one of us can go home again. Your sacrifice will restore the lives of countless millions. I'm sorry. 
(Transmission ends.)
KIM: I'm reading a massive energy build-up. Some kind of weapon. 
JANEWAY: Shields. 
(The time incursion beam is aimed directly at Voyager.)
SEVEN: Temporal shields are weakening. 
KIM: Captain, that energy beam. It's pushing Voyager out of the space-time continuum. 
JANEWAY: He's trying to erase us from history. 
SEVEN: I've scanned their propulsion system. Their vessel's mass prevents them from exceeding warp six. We can escape. 
TUVOK: Captain, I must remind you our structural integrity is still impaired. If we go to warp now, the damage to Voyager will be extreme. 
KIM: What about Tom and Chakotay? 
JANEWAY: We'll have to come back for them. All hands clear the outer sections and prepare for wide-scale breaches. Tuvok, activate the transverse bulkheads. 
SEVEN: Temporal shields are failing. 
JANEWAY: Engage warp seven. 
KIM: They're not in pursuit. 
TUVOK: We're losing the outer hull. Transverse bulkheads are holding.
(Pieces of hull fly off into the camera.) 
Day 73
[Mess hall]
(The whole crew is gathered. That is not a lot of people.)
JANEWAY: Each of you has done their best, but determination alone isn't going to hold this ship together. It's time we faced reality. We've lost nine decks. More than half the ship has been destroyed. Life support is nearly gone. Voyager can no longer sustain it's crew. I promised myself that I would never give this order, that I would never break up this family, but asking you to stay would be asking you to die. You will proceed to the escape pods and evacuate this vessel. Set your course for the Alpha Quadrant. Along the way, try to find allies. Secure faster ships, if you can. Anything to get home. The senior staff and I will remain on board as long as possible. We will try somehow to rescue Tom and Chakotay. The escape pods are equipped with subspace beacons. That's how we'll keep track of you. When we find each other again, (she knocks on a table) and we will, we will find each other again, I expect all of you to be in one piece with some interesting stories to tell. Good luck.
(The escape pods are ejected.) 
To Be Continued...
Day 133
Captain's log, stardate 51425.4. Our condition has left us vulnerable to spatial anomalies and to any alien species eager for a piece of hardware. We've taken refuge in a class nine nebula. 
[Corridor]
(Deep purple gas has filled the corridor. Janeway and Kim are wearing gasmasks and using wrist beacons to see.)
JANEWAY: Come on. Don't do this to me now. Emergency forcefields are holding. How the hell did all this gas get inside? 
KIM: Looks like a malfunction in the ventilation system. Okay, I'm going to try reversing the osmotic pressure on this deck. Whoa! The gas corroded the circuit relays. 
JANEWAY: Let's bypass. 
KIM: We've got three minutes of air left. 
JANEWAY: How long can you hold your breath? 
[Bridge]
EMH: Ensign Kim found time to be treated. So can you. 
JANEWAY: How is Harry? 
EMH: He'll be fine, but I'm surprised he didn't asphyxiate. I told you eight minutes on that deck, not eight and a half, not nine, and certainly not twelve. 
JANEWAY: Would you rather have an indoor nebula? If we didn't stop it then and there, it would have flooded another two decks. B'Elanna, engines? 
TORRES: Not yet Captain. One of the warp nacelles is still offline. The other one's a lost cause. 
JANEWAY: Route all available power to the good one. 
EMH: The alveoli in your lungs have been chemically burned. I want you off your feet for the next forty eight hours. 
JANEWAY: Impossible. I've got too much work to do. 
EMH: There are seven other crew members on board. You're the captain. Delegate. 
JANEWAY: Inject me with trioxin. That should help me breathe a little easier. B'Elanna, stand by for the transfer. 
TORRES: Right. 
EMH: Trioxin is used in emergency situations as a stop-gap measure. Your lungs have suffered serious damage. They need to be treated properly. Doctor's orders. 
JANEWAY: Captain's orders. Trioxin. Now. 
EMH: Aye, aye. It's your body. Who am I to judge? I'm only the Chief Medical officer. What do I know? 
JANEWAY: Thank you. Now, where were we? 
[Krenim Timeship - Annorax' chambers]
(The bearded and dishevelled Chakotay is dragged from his cell. He arrives at Annorax' room clean-shaven and in fresh clothing.)
ANNORAX: Well, you look rested. 
CHAKOTAY: Where's my crewmate? 
ANNORAX: He should have been here by now. No doubt he's making himself difficult. I've never seen such an intransigent young man. 
CHAKOTAY: You've had us in isolation for two months. We've been scanned, poked and prodded. How do you expect us to act? 
ANNORAX: With some degree of dignity and restraint. Your crewmate has none. 
CHAKOTAY: What do you want from us? 
ANNORAX: At the moment, information. 
(Paris enters, also in casual attire.)
PARIS: Anything for such a charming host. Are you all right? 
ANNORAX: The galley has prepared a selection of unique delicacies. You won't find them anywhere else in the galaxy. Please, join me. 
(The table is spread with a banquet. Paris and Chakotay sit.)
ANNORAX: Malkothian spirits. An extremely rare vintage. The only bottle known to exist. Your captain said that your vessel is trying to reach home. I hadn't realised how far your home was. You're an anomalous component. Alone, disconnected, impossible to predict. You have no idea how you've complicated my mission. 
PARIS: Glad to hear it. 
ANNORAX: When I first encountered your vessel, it was badly damaged, barely functioning. What if I told you that in the blink of an eye I could restore Voyager to its former condition, that you and I would never have met. that you might even find yourself closer to the Alpha Quadrant?
CHAKOTAY: By using the weapon on this ship to alter history? 
ANNORAX: Yes. I can control the destiny of a single molecule or an entire civilisation. How's the wine? 
CHAKOTAY: Excellent. 
ANNORAX: This bottle is the only component left of the once powerful Malkoth race. Everything else about them, cities, culture, the very species itself never existed, because of me. Every dish you see here comes from a civilisation that has been erased from time. Mister Paris, you're devouring the last remnants of the Alsuran Empire. I have collected artefacts from hundreds of worlds. This vessel is more than a weapon. It's a museum of lost histories. You two gentlemen almost became artefacts yourselves, but I've decided to spare your vessel. 
PARIS: Why? 
ANNORAX: Call it an act of compassion. You're trying to reach home. In a way, so am I. We can work together to achieve both our goals. 
CHAKOTAY: What do you propose? 
ANNORAX: In order to make the calculations required to restore Voyager, I need to know about some of your experiences in this quadrant. What species you interacted with, how other components were affected by your presence. 
PARIS: You can't find her, can you? I think Captain Janeway has been eluding you for the past two months. Otherwise you would've destroyed Voyager by now. 
ANNORAX: I'm offering you a way out of this situation. You accept my offer, or when I do find Voyager I will destroy it. 
PARIS: And how many civilisations will you have to erase to send us merrily on our way? No thanks. We don't want that kind of blood on our hands. 
CHAKOTAY: Tom, hold on. You said you could control the destiny of a single molecule. If you made a precise enough calculation, could you restore Voyager without harming anyone? 
ANNORAX: It is possible, but it's extremely difficult. That's why I need your cooperation. 
PARIS: I'd rather spend a year in solitary confinement than listen to any of this. 
CHAKOTAY: Tom, have a seat. 
PARIS: Chakotay, we can't trust him. 
ANNORAX: You're correct. Given the circumstances, there is no reason to trust me. But trust isn't necessary. We need each other. 
(Annorax summons Obrist.)
ANNORAX: Obrist, show our guest to his new quarters. I'll do everything in my power to make you comfortable here, Mister Paris. All I ask in return is that you keep an open mind. 
(Obrist and Paris leave.)
ANNORAX: I was very impressed with your question. You seem to understand the subtleties of time. 
CHAKOTAY: Professor Vassbinder might've disagreed with you. I failed his course in temporal mechanics. 
ANNORAX: Beyond study and instrumentation, there is instinct. Not everyone has the ability to truly perceive time. Its colours, its moods. Perhaps you do. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm certainly willing to give it a try. 
[Mess hall]
(The remaining senior staff are seated around one table. They raise their cups.)
TORRES: To distant friends. 
NEELIX: To friends.
JANEWAY: Hear, hear.
KIM: Cheers. 
SEVEN: Yes. 
(Kim takes a sip.)
NEELIX: Well? 
TUVOK: Interesting. 
KIM: Not bad. Not bad at all. 
TORRES: What is it exactly? 
NEELIX: I call it the Elixir of Endurance. It's loaded with amino acids, carbohydrates, all the nutrients necessary for the crew to withstand these stressful conditions. 
TORRES: Ration cubes. 
NEELIX: Well, yes, yes. But this time, pureed and mixed with water and enhanced with Talaxian spices. 
SEVEN: It is offensive. Fortunately taste is irrelevant. 
JANEWAY: Well, it's been a few days since we've gathered in one place. Now's a good time to catch up. How are the repairs proceeding? 
EMH: I'm happy to report that I've repaired the optronic error in my programme. 
JANEWAY: And the power grid? 
KIM: We're operating at thirty two percent efficiency. I think I can bring it up to fifty, but I'll need a few more days. 
JANEWAY: Warp drive? 
TORRES: I'm still having trouble with the starboard nacelle. 
JANEWAY: How long? 
TORRES: Three weeks. Minimum. 
JANEWAY: I thought this nebula would be a safe haven until we finished repairs, but it's turning into a permanent residence. We've got to get back into open space, find allies, put together a fighting force to take on Annorax. We're leaving this damn cloud first thing tomorrow morning. 
SEVEN: Captain, you are in error. 
JANEWAY: Really? 
SEVEN: At the moment this vessel is defenceless. We should remain here until we are functioning at our peak efficiency. 
JANEWAY: I appreciate your opinion, Seven, but I disagree. We leave tomorrow, oh eight hundred hours. 
[Corridor]
TUVOK: It is inappropriate to contradict the captain in front of the crew. 
SEVEN: That was not my intention. I simply pointed out that her decision was wrong. 
TUVOK: In your view. 
SEVEN: And yours. I know you well enough to say that. 
TUVOK: Then you should also know that my trust in Captain Janeway is absolute. The decision you or I might have made is irrelevant. 
SEVEN: As a Borg, I submitted to a single authority, the Collective. Over the past several months I've been encouraged to think and act as an individual. It is difficult to know when to restrain myself. 
TUVOK: Remember this guideline. The captain is always right. 
SEVEN: Even when you know her logic is flawed? 
TUVOK: Perhaps. 
Day 161
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Component 37329, a rogue comet. About eight months ago, Voyager made a course correction to avoid the comet. According to my calculations, it led to our entering Krenim space. 
ANNORAX: The solution, then, would be to erase that comet from history. 
CHAKOTAY: Exactly. Voyager would have stayed on its course and bypassed Krenim space altogether. 
ANNORAX: Sounds simple enough. Conduct a simulation. 
CHAKOTAY: Temporal incursion in progress. What happened? 
ANNORAX: Had you actually eradicated that comet, all life within fifty light years would never have existed. Congratulations, You almost wiped out eight thousand civilisations. 
CHAKOTAY: I didn't consider the entire history of the comet. 
ANNORAX: Four billion years ago, fragments from that comet impacted a planet. Hydrocarbons from those fragments gave rise to several species of plant life, which in turn sustained more complex organisms. Ultimately several space-faring civilisations evolved and colonised the entire sector. 
CHAKOTAY: By erasing the comet I altered all evolution in this region. 
ANNORAX: Past, present and future. They exist as one. They breathe together. You're not the only person to make this mistake. When I first constructed this weapon ship, I turned it against our greatest enemy, the Rilnar. The result was miraculous. With the Rilnar gone from history, my people, in an instant, became powerful again. But there were problems. A rare disease broke out among our colonies. Within a year, fifty million were dead. I had failed to realise that the Rilnar had introduced a crucial antibody into the Krenim genome, and my weapon had eliminated that antibody as well. 
CHAKOTAY: And you've been trying to undo that damage ever since. But each time you pull out a new thread, another one begins to unravel. 
ANNORAX: You can't imagine the burden of memory that I carry. Thousands of worlds, billions of lives, gone, brought back, gone again. I try to rationalise the loss. They're not really being destroyed, because they never existed. Sometimes I can almost convince myself. 
CHAKOTAY: You've been at this for two hundred years, Annorax. What makes you think you're ever going to succeed? 
ANNORAX: What makes you think Voyager will ever reach Earth? The odds against you are astronomical, yet you keep trying. 
CHAKOTAY: You're right. But we don't destroy everything that stands in our way. 
ANNORAX: You can help me to change that, Chakotay. Together, we'll restore the Krenim and Voyager and we'll undo the damage that I've caused. 
CHAKOTAY: I've still got a lot to learn. 
ANNORAX: Come. It's time I show you the heart of this vessel. The temporal core. 
Day 180
[Bridge]
(Out of the nebula, and space dust is raining down on the battered spaceship.)
JANEWAY: Engines. 
TORRES: I'm doing my best. 
KIM: Captain, with the deflector down those micrometeoroids are beginning to erode the hull. 
JANEWAY: Emergency power to the deflector. 
TUVOK: None available. 
JANEWAY: I'll be in deflector control. 
TUVOK: Captain. That entire section has been designated hazard level four. 
JANEWAY: I know. 
[Outside Deflector control]
(Janeway forces the doors open but is pushed back by the heat.)
JANEWAY: Oh, why do I get the feeling you're testing me, Voyager? Bridge, there's a fire in deflector control. Any luck with the engines? 
[Bridge]
TORRES: The warp core's still offline. 
KIM: Micro-meteoroid density 
[Outside Deflector control]
KIM [OC]: Is increasing. The nacelle pylon is buckling. 
(Janeway picks up a shield-sized piece of metal.)
JANEWAY: Bridge, I'm going in. Stand by to engage the deflector. Tell the Doctor I'll be coming; 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY [OC]: 
Back with severe burns.
TUVOK: Captain. 
[Outside Deflector control]
JANEWAY: Do it. Be kind. 
[Bridge]
KIM: The captain's accessed manual control. She's stabilising the particle emitters. She's got it! Deflectors online! 
TUVOK: Activating deflector field. Bridge to Janeway. Captain, please respond.
(Janeway is unconscious, and badly burnt.) 
[Mess hall]
(The EMH uses a ;hypo to wake her.)
JANEWAY: What's my condition? 
EMH: You suffered third degree burns to approximately sixty percent of your body. I've healed most of them, but without a dermal regenerator I couldn't repair all the damage to your skin. You've been left with scars on your face and arms. 
JANEWAY: I'll consider them mementos. 
EMH: Not so fast. You're spending the next few days here with me. 
JANEWAY: What for? 
EMH: Observation. 
JANEWAY: Is there something else wrong with me? 
EMH: Not physically. 
JANEWAY: What are you suggesting? 
EMH: Traumatic stress syndrome. Symptoms. Irritability, sleeplessness, obsessional thoughts, reckless behaviour. All of which you've demonstrated over the last few weeks. 
JANEWAY: My only obsession is with saving my ship, my people. If I've been taking some reckless chances in order to do that, it's hardly a medical condition. 
EMH: I'm not going to stand here while you rationalise yet another brush with death. 
JANEWAY: You don't have to. 
EMH: As Chief Medical Officer, I have the authority to relieve you of your command. 
JANEWAY: You're not going to do that. 
EMH: If, in my medical opinion, your judgment has been impaired, I can. And I will. 
JANEWAY: Try it and I'll shut down your programme. 
EMH: That threat in itself is evidence of your unstable condition. 
JANEWAY: I am sorry, Doctor. I've been operating on instinct for so long I did not think before I spoke. I have no intention of deactivating you. But I won't stay in this mess hall. 
EMH: Is that final? 
JANEWAY: Final. 
EMH: Then you leave me no choice. Captain Kathryn Janeway, under Starfleet medical regulation one twenty one, section A, I, the Chief Medical Officer, do hereby relieve you of your active command, effective immediately. Have a seat. 
JANEWAY: How do you plan to implement this protocol, Doctor? Mister Tuvok doesn't have a security team, both the brigs have been destroyed, and with the internal forcefields offline you'll have a hell of a time keeping me confined. You'd better grab a phaser, because before I give up command you'll have to shoot me. 
EMH: You realise this incident will be noted in my official logs. By refusing my orders you risk a general court martial. 
JANEWAY: Compared to what I've been through the past few months, a court martial would be a small price to pay. If we make it back home I'll be happy to face the music. 
Day 207
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Another ruptured EPS conduit. 
NEELIX: Thirty two so far. 
JANEWAY: Thirty three, thirty four, thirty five. And that fluidic converter needs to be purged. 
NEELIX: Right. 
JANEWAY: The gravitational plating in this room has buckled. 
NEELIX: Chakotay's quarters. 
[Chakotay's quarters]
(Janeway scans the wreckage and finds the pocket watch.)
JANEWAY: You disobeyed orders. 
NEELIX: Captain? 
JANEWAY: Chakotay gave this to me five months ago. A birthday gift. I ordered him to 
(She uses the heavy chain to secure the watch to her trousers.)
JANEWAY: What do you think? 
NEELIX: Handsome. 
JANEWAY: Come on. 
[Krenim Timeship - Paris' quarters]
(Paris and Obrist are playing some kind of game.)
OBRIST: Astounding. 
PARIS: Not really. I get lucky now and again. 
OBRIST: Your end game sequence, it, er, it was the same one favoured by my brother. 
PARIS: To quote a long lost friend of mine, it seemed logical. Now what? 
OBRIST: I used to honour the day of his birth. 
PARIS: Who? 
OBRIST: My brother. And my parents, my closest friends. Every year at first. Then one day I realised a century had passed, and for years I had been celebrating birthdays for the dead. Or for people who;never even existed. 
PARIS: I'm sorry. 
[Krenim Timeship - Chakotay's quarters]
(Chakotay is working at a Krenim PADD when Paris enters.)
PARIS: You can put that thing down, Chakotay. No need to strain your eyes anymore, I've got a plan. 
CHAKOTAY: Let's hear it. 
PARIS: This ship's temporal core keeps the vessel out of phase with normal space-time, but it's shields are incredibly weak. You take that core offline, and a photon grenade could penetrate the hull. 
CHAKOTAY: How do you know all this? 
PARIS: I've been spending time with our friend Obrist, who seems more than willing to share information. And that's not all. Does the name Captain Bligh mean anything to you? This is not a happy crew. They've been at this for two hundred years now. They're tired of it, Chakotay. They want it to end. 
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Tom. But I'm not quite ready to start a mutiny. Keep gathering information, lie low. I'm starting to make progress on the temporal calculations. With a little time and luck I think we can get the Krenim back on their feet, and Voyager back to the Alpha Quadrant. 
PARIS: You're starting to sound like Annorax. Always one more calculation. This time it's going to be perfect. 
CHAKOTAY: This can work. If you'd take the time to listen you'd understand what Annorax is trying to do. 
PARIS: What? Wipe out civilisations to help his own race? I understand perfectly. 
CHAKOTAY: It's more complicated than that. Annorax is an enlightened man. Misguided, but I think he wants this to end as much as anyone. 
PARIS: I guess I don't have the instinct for Time, or whatever it is Captain Nemo out there calls it. Chakotay, he's been flattering you and it's gone to your head. 
CHAKOTAY: You're out of line, Lieutenant 
PARIS: Maybe I shouldn't start a mutiny, but I might be able to get Obrist to help us send a message to Captain Janeway. 
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. If you get caught, we lose everything. I can get us out of this. 
PARIS: Not if I get us out of here first. 
CHAKOTAY: You're not doing anything against Annorax. That's an order. 
PARIS: What are you going to do, take away my holodeck privileges? 
CHAKOTAY: Either we maintain our command structure, or else we settle our differences the old fashioned way. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
(An alarm is sounding.)
CHAKOTAY: What's happening? 
ANNORAX: We're preparing for a temporal incursion. 
CHAKOTAY: What incursion? You didn't say anything about 
ANNORAX: I had an inspiration last night. By my calculations the eradication of the Ram Izad species will result in a fifty two percent restoration of the Krenim timeline. 
CHAKOTAY: I thought we were working to avoid more destruction. 
ANNORAX: When Time offers you an opportunity you don't ignore it. 
OBRIST: We're within range of their homeworld. 
ANNORAX: Take us into orbit. Full power to the weapon. Prepare for total erasure. 
PARIS: Is this what you call enlightened? 
OBRIST: Targeting the focal point. Locked. 
CHAKOTAY: Please. This isn't necessary. We'll find another way. 
ANNORAX: Fire. Trace elements? 
OBRIST: Diminishing. 
ANNORAX: Counter indications? 
OBRIST: None so far. 
ANNORAX: Scan the continuum. Bring me the results once they're complete. 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
ANNORAX: I'll be in my chambers. 
(Annorax leaves.)
PARIS: Have you seen enough yet, Chakotay? If you don't do something about this maniac, I will. 
[Krenim Timeship - Annorax's chambers]
CHAKOTAY: You didn't need to fire on that planet. 
ANNORAX: I'm altering history on a massive scale. The destinies of countless star systems are in my hands. The fate of one species is insignificant. 
CHAKOTAY: You're trying to rationalise genocide. One species is significant. A single life is significant. 
ANNORAX: It seemed so easy the first time. In the blink of an eye, I had changed history itself. Allowed my people to thrive again. But when I changed history a second time, I lost more than you can imagine. 
CHAKOTAY: The colony on Kyana Prime. 
ANNORAX: How could you know that? 
CHAKOTAY: I've been studying your previous incursions. No matter how close you get to restoring the timeline, one component is always missing. Kyana Prime. Who was on that colony? Who did you lose? 
ANNORAX: My wife. And with her, my future. My children, grandchildren, all erased because of me. This is all I have left of her. 
(A lock of hair in the pyramid.)
ANNORAX: So many years I worked through the night while she was sleeping. How could I have known I was calculating her fate? I can't stop until I've restored Kyana Prime, and forced Time to give me back my wife. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it isn't possible. 
ANNORAX: When I tell that Time has moods, a disposition to be intuited, I'm not speaking metaphorically. 
CHAKOTAY: What do you mean? 
ANNORAX: Anger is one of it's moods. Anger and the desire for retribution, vengeance. Time itself has tried to punish me for my arrogance. It has kept me from my wife, denied me my future. 
(Obrist enters.)
OBRIST: Sir, we've achieved a fifty two percent restoration. 
ANNORAX: Kyana Prime? 
OBRIST: Negative, sir. 
ANNORAX: Resume scanning the continuum. 
OBRIST: Yes, sir. 
(Obrist leaves.)
ANNORAX: I've, er, I've studied your calculations, Chakotay. They're promising, but premature. We'll keep working on them. In the meantime, my mission must continue. 
CHAKOTAY: You don't have the right. 
ANNORAX: To fight for what is mine? That's not for you to decide. Only Time can pronounce judgment against me. 
[Krenim Timeship - Chakotay's quarters]
PARIS: If that little display doesn't convince you I don't know what will. He's insane. 
CHAKOTAY: No he's not, Wounded, maybe, even tortured, but I can still reach him, convince him to stop. 
PARIS: Not from what you've told me. This guy thinks that Time has a personal grudge against him. That's called paranoia, Chakotay, with a hint of megalomania. 
CHAKOTAY: You don't know what he's been through. 
PARIS: He's lost his family. Okay, that's a terrible thing. But so has everyone else on this ship. And frankly, so have we. 
CHAKOTAY: What kind of progress have you made? 
PARIS: Obrist is coming around, and I think we can trust him. He says he'll give me access to their communications array. I can send a message to Voyager from the comfort of my own quarters. 
CHAKOTAY: And the temporal core? 
PARIS: That's going to be a little trickier. With Obrist's help, I'm pretty sure I can disable it, but not without setting off every alarm on the ship. We're only going to have one chance. 
CHAKOTAY: It'll require precise timing. You and me working from within. 
PARIS: And Captain Janeway attacking from Voyager. That is, if the captain's still alive. 
CHAKOTAY: She's alive. Send the message. Transmit our coordinates. 
PARIS: Done. 
CHAKOTAY: And, give Kathryn my best. 
Day 226
Captain's log, stardate 51682.2. I've forged a coalition with the Nihydron and the Mawasi. Together, we're preparing to attack the weapon ship. 
[Bridge]
(There are two ships from each species with Voyager.)
JANEWAY: I've analysed every carrier frequency of their transmission. It contains a classified Starfleet ID code. It could only have come from Tom Paris. It's real. The coordinates he sent should lead us directly to the weapon ship. 
TUVOK: Location? 
JANEWAY: Approximately fifty light years from here. Our new allies are assembling reinforcements. Once we're in range, Tom says he'll try to take the weapon ship's temporal core offline. When that happens they'll be vulnerable to conventional weapons. Tom will then transmit the exact location of the core. Our job will be to disable the ship and get our people out. Is everyone clear? 
KIM: Yes, ma'am. 
TORRES: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, Harry, I want you to beam over to the Nihydron vessel. Work with their engineers. The entire fleet needs to be equipped with temporal shielding. 
TORRES: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok, Neelix, Seven. You'll be working on the Mawasi ship. 
NEELIX: Yes, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Doctor, once the attack begins, your skills will no doubt be required. Join Tuvok's team. 
EMH: What about yourself? 
JANEWAY: I'll be piloting Voyager, coordinating the attack. 
TORRES: Captain, there's barely enough of this ship left to get there, much less wage a war. 
JANEWAY: There's fight in Voyager yet. It's still got temporal shields, six photon torpedoes. It'll hold together. Besides, you know the adage. Captain goes down with the ship, right? You have your orders. Dismissed. Tuvok, I can hear your objections already. I am not leaving. 
TUVOK: Given Voyager's damaged state, the probability of your surviving an armed conflict is marginal. 
JANEWAY: Oh, I know the odds. But I have to stay. Voyager's done too much for us. 
TUVOK: Curious. I have never understood the human compulsion to emotionally bond with inanimate objects. This vessel has done nothing. It is an assemblage of bulkheads, conduits, tritanium. Nothing more. 
JANEWAY: Oh, you're wrong. It's much more than that. This ship has been our home. It's kept us together. It's been part of our family. As illogical as this might sound, I feel as close to Voyager as I do to any other member of my crew. It's carried us, Tuvok. Even nurtured us. And right now it needs one of us. 
TUVOK: I respect your decision. Live long and prosper, Captain. 
(Tuvok raises his hand in Vulcan salute. Janeway strokes his face.)
JANEWAY: Same to you, old friend.
(Janeway hugs Tuvok. He reciprocates, slightly. Then Janeway lets Seven lead him away. Janeway looks at the watch at her waist, then Chakotay's empty chair, and sits down.) 
Day 257
[Bridge]
(Janeway is at the helm.)
JANEWAY: Voyager to Mawasi vessel. 
TUVOK [OC]: Go ahead, Captain. 
JANEWAY: I'm picking up the weapon ship dead ahead. 
TUVOK [OC]: Confirmed. 
JANEWAY: Temporal shields status. 
TUVOK [OC]: All vessels are bringing them online. 
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway to the fleet. Plot an intercept course to the weapon ship. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: Sir, six vessels are approaching our position. 
ANNORAX: Identify. 
OBRIST: Three Nihydron warships, two Mawasi cruisers, and Voyager. 
ANNORAX: We're outside space-time, impervious to their weapons. Let them come. 
CHAKOTAY: I know Captain Janeway. She wouldn't be attacking unless she knew she could do some damage.
(Obrist sends a message to Paris' quarters.) 
[Krenim Timeship - Paris' quarters]
PARIS: Good work, Obrist.
(Paris relays the information.) 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: If she's given the other ships temporal shielding, they've undoubtedly informed their home worlds. They'll be able to protect their planets against your weapon. 
ANNORAX: Bring the weapon to full power. Stand by for multiple incursions. We'll have to disable their temporal shields first. Make the necessary calculations. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK [OC]: All vessels report ready. 
JANEWAY: Let's see if Tom has done his part. Janeway to the fleet. Attack pattern Omega. Engage. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
ANNORAX: Condition? 
OBRIST: No damage. Temporal core is stable. 
ANNORAX: Return fire. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, two Nihydron vessels have been destroyed. 
JANEWAY: Janeway to the fleet. Evasive pattern Delta. We're going to have to wait. Come on, Tom. Come on.
(Paris is still working.) 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
ANNORAX: Target the other vessels. Obrist, I said target the vessels. You're deactivating the temporal core. 
OBRIST: I'm sorry, sir. It's over. 
(Obrist beams Chakotay and Paris away.)
ANNORAX: Get back to your stations. You will not disobey me. We're phasing back into normal space-time. Reconfigure to conventional weapons. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, Chakotay and Paris were beamed aboard our vessel. 
JANEWAY: Everything's going as planned. Tom sent me the coordinates of their temporal core before he left. I'm transmitting them to you now. 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
OBRIST: Conventional weapons are online and fully charged, sir. 
ANNORAX: Fire at will.
(A damaged cruiser crashes into Voyager. Fires break out everywhere and Janeway is knocked across the deck. She crawls back to the Captain's chair. There is a big hole where the viewscreen used to be, and only a forcefield between her and a close view of Annorax' ship.)
OBRIST: Sir, weapons are back to full capacity. 
ANNORAX: Target Voyager. Put Janeway out of her misery. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK [OC]: All our ships have been disabled, Captain. Do you have weapons? 
JANEWAY: Negative. Torpedo launchers are down. I'm setting a collision course. Janeway to the fleet. Take your temporal shields offline. 
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, we won't be protected. 
JANEWAY: Exactly. If that ship is destroyed all of history might be restored. And this is one year I'd like to forget. Time's up.
(Voyager ploughs into its mortal enemy with a big KaBOOM!) 
[Krenim Timeship - Bridge]
(Annorax and his crew pick themselves up from the deck.)
ANNORAX: The core is destabilising. It's going to cause a temporal incursion within the ship.
(The pyramid falls off the console and breaks. The lock of hair vanishes, then the Time ship explodes and implodes. Now that's how to press a big red Reset button.) 
Day 1
Captain's log, Stardate 51252.3. The past couple of weeks have been uneventful but we've made excellent progress on the new Astrometrics lab. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: When can you bring it online? 
SEVEN: We just did. 
KIM: In fact, we're in the process of charting a new course home. 
JANEWAY: Well, I'd say this is cause for celebration. 
TUVOK: A vessel is approaching off the port bow, Captain. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
KIM: They're hailing us. 
JANEWAY: Open a channel. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: You've entered Krenim space. State your identity. 
JANEWAY: Captain Janeway of the starship Voyager. We're just passing through, trying to get home. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: This region is in dispute. I suggest you avoid our territory. 
JANEWAY: Thanks for the warning. 
KRENIM COMMANDANT [on viewscreen]: Good journey. 
CHAKOTAY: Tom, plot a course around Krenim space. 
PARIS: Aye, sir. 
CHAKOTAY: So, what do you think? How about a ground-breaking ceremony for our new lab? 
KIM: Sounds great. 
JANEWAY: I think I'll replicate a bottle of Saint Emillion for the occasion. 2370. I hear that was a good year. 
[Kyana Prime Colony]
ANNORAX'S WIFE: Good morning. 
ANNORAX: Good morning. 
ANNORAX'S WIFE: Join me for breakfast? 
ANNORAX: In a little while. I still have a few more calculations. 
(He is working on two PADDs at the same time.)
ANNORAX'S WIFE: There are always a few more calculations. It's a beautiful day. Spend it with me. 
ANNORAX: I suppose I can make the time. 

