Episode Number: 611
The Voyager Transcripts - Tsunkatse
Tsunkatse
Stardate: 53447.2
Original Airdate: 9 February 2000
(Spotlights play across the arena, music pounds, and the audience up in the gallery are excited with anticipation. A door opens, and a male runs into the arena. There are lights on his gloves and boots, and a disc on his chest. The crowd goes wild. Then his opponent enters - an Hirogen. A deep tone signals the start of the bout. They circle, then start hitting. The Hirogen knocks the other down, but gets kicked on the chest disc. There is a Zap! sound. More kicking, punching and dodging, then the Hirogen lands two good blows, and two more. His opponent is out for the count. In the crowd, Chakotay and Torres applaud.)
Captain's log, stardate 53447.2. The crew's enjoying a much needed shore leave on the Norcadian homeworld while I visit Pendari, a planet in the neighbouring system. I'm leaving Commander Chakotay in charge of Voyager. 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: You may want to run a diagnostic on the shield generators. It's way overdue. 
CHAKOTAY: Consider it done. 
JANEWAY: And don't forget to keep tabs on Neelix's little project in the mess hall. 
CHAKOTAY: He's still trying to enhance the plasma burners in his stove? 
JANEWAY: With some of Seven's Borg technology. I don't want him accidentally turning the galley into an assimilation chamber. 
CHAKOTAY: I'll assign a security detail to keep tabs on him. Unless you think we need to take more drastic measures? 
JANEWAY: And most important, be sure to tell your Captain when she's being overprotective. 
CHAKOTAY: I'll do that. 
JANEWAY: Thanks again for minding the store. 
CHAKOTAY: Even the captain deserves a vacation once in a while. 
JANEWAY: And her First Officer? 
CHAKOTAY: He's looking forward to putting his feet up on your desk. 
(Janeway goes into the shuttlebay.)
TORRES: Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: Fun last night, wasn't it? 
TORRES: There's another match scheduled at fifteen hundred. 
CHAKOTAY: I've got a systems diagnostic. 
TORRES: Correct me if I'm wrong, but you're in command until the captain gets back. 
CHAKOTAY: What's your point? 
TORRES: Delegate. I happen to know that Harry's free this afternoon. 
[Mess hall]
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant, you're not suggesting I abuse my power. 
(There is a large dish of something yellow on a hotplate.)
TORRES: Tell me that's not lunch. 
NEELIX: It's leola ointment for my skin. 
CHAKOTAY: What happened? 
NEELIX: I was so excited to visit one of those beautiful Norcadian beaches that I forgot to take my dermaline hypospray. I fell asleep under two suns. 
(Neelix is very pink.)
TORRES: Ouch. 
NEELIX: A little more colour than I was hoping for, but it'll be a beautiful amber before you know it. How's your shore leave been? 
TORRES: Well, we've spent the last few days at the Tsunkatse matches. 
NEELIX: Tsunkatse. I heard some crewmen talking about that during breakfast. 
CHAKOTAY: It's exciting. A real test of strength and agility. 
TORRES: You should come to the match with us this afternoon. 
SEVEN: From what I've heard, Tsunkatse is crude and pointless. 
TORRES: Well, I guess we won't be saving you a seat. 
CHAKOTAY: What about you, Tuvok? You appreciate the martial arts. 
TUVOK: I have other plans. There's a micro-nebula approximately one point six light years from here on the verge of collapse. 
SEVEN: We'd like to take a shuttle to study it. 
NEELIX: An away mission during shore leave? 
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok and I don't require recreational activities. 
TORRES: The Borg wouldn't know fun if they assimilated an amusement park. 
CHAKOTAY: It's your shore leave. But try to enjoy yourselves. That's an order. 
[Cargo Bay two]
PARIS: Here's the navigational data you asked for. 
SEVEN: Thank you. 
(Seven is packing several barrels with equipment.)
PARIS: How long are you planning on being gone? 
SEVEN: Approximately forty eight hours. 
PARIS: Just like B'Elanna. 
SEVEN: Clarify. 
PARIS: She over-packs too. 
SEVEN: I haven't over-packed. I simply wish to be prepared for any contingency. 
PARIS: And what contingency is this for? 
SEVEN: That's an iso-modulator, enhanced to correct hull ablation in the event we encounter a meteoroid stream. 
PARIS: Couldn't you just replicate an iso-modulator? 
SEVEN: I prefer this one. 
PARIS: Oh, I get it. You like to have your own things with you. B'Elanna's the same way. You know, she'd never admit it, but she still takes a stuffed animal with her whenever she's going to be away for more than a day. Toby the Targ. 
SEVEN: Can Toby the Targ correct hull ablation? Your comparison is flawed. 
[Corridor]
(Seven is carrying two smaller containers.)
EMH: Just the person I was looking for. 
SEVEN: You require my assistance? 
EMH: Your company. I was wondering if you care to join me on a tour of Norcadia's cultural hot spots. I hear their museums are among the finest in this sector. 
SEVEN: I'm busy. 
EMH: With what? 
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok and I are leaving to study a collapsing micro-nebula. 
EMH: During shore leave? I thought we'd discussed this. Shore leave is a perfect opportunity for you to spend time with other members of the crew, to develop your social skills. 
SEVEN: Then I suppose I'll have to develop them with Commander Tuvok. 
EMH: Vulcans aren't exactly known for their winning personalities. 
SEVEN: You'd prefer I spent my time with sociable individuals such as yourself. 
EMH: You could do worse. 
SEVEN: In that case, perhaps you'd care to join us. 
EMH: To study the micro-nebula? 
SEVEN: You can assist us with our analysis of veridium oxide particulates. 
EMH: On second thought, you and Tuvok have a good time. 
SEVEN: I'll give the Commander your regrets. 
EMH: Do that. And if the nebula isn't as riveting as you'd hoped, try to remember lesson thirty six. Pleasant Parlour Games To Pass The Time. You'll need it. 
[Shuttlecraft]
SEVEN: Two hours, thirty seven minutes, thirteen seconds. That's how long we've gone without verbal communication. 
TUVOK: Why is that remarkable? 
SEVEN: The Doctor encourages me to engage in conversation during awkward silences. 
TUVOK: Did you find the silence awkward? 
SEVEN: No. 
TUVOK: Nor did I. 
SEVEN: There's a vessel approaching on an intercept course. The hull configuration is unfamiliar. 
TUVOK: Distance? 
SEVEN: Approximately three hundred thousand kilometres. 
TUVOK: Hail them. 
SEVEN: No response. 
(The much bigger ship is coming up on them from astern.)
TUVOK: Tuvok to Voyager. 
SEVEN: The vessel is emitting some kind of dampening field. We've lost engines, weapons, shields. 
(The shuttlecraft goes dark, then an object is beamed in. Tuvok scans it.)
TUVOK: It's an explosive device of some sort. 
SEVEN: Transporters are down. I can't beam it off. 
TUVOK: I'll try to disarm it. 
(But there is a forcefield around it. It goes off.) 
{Tsunkatse living quarters]
(Seven wakes up lying on a bunk. The next voice you hear will sound very familiar. It is Jeffrey Combs, aka Brunt, Weyoun, or Shran, amongst others.)
PENK: Borg-enhanced physiology. You should possess superior strength, agility, stamina, and visual acuity. Welcome to Tsunkatse. Since the game's inception our audience has never had the pleasure of seeing a drone compete. You are going to be a very popular attraction. 
SEVEN: Where is Commander Tuvok? 
PENK: Your comrade from the shuttle? I'm afraid he was injured in the explosion. 
SEVEN: I wish to see him. Now. 
PENK: Certainly. You will learn nothing is more important to me than the comfort and happiness of my fighters. 
(The next voice usually comes from under a Klingon forehead - J G Hertzler.)
HIROGEN: Yes, Penk's generosity is legendary. 
(Laughter from the other fighters.)
PENK: Quiet! He's envious because I've found a new favourite. 
SEVEN: I have no intention of participating in your game. 
PENK: Aggressive. I like that. 
(Tuvok is helped into the room.)
SEVEN: He requires medical attention. 
PENK: That can be arranged. 
SEVEN: Then arrange it. 
PENK: You haven't won a single bout, and already you're making demands like a champion. 
SEVEN: Will you treat him or not? 
PENK: Will you fight? 
TUVOK: Do not comply. My condition is not severe. 
(He has nasty burns.)
PENK: Spoken like a true competitor, willing to ignore his injuries for the sake of the contest. Schedule a bout for him. A Red Match against the Pensarkan. 
HIROGEN: A Red Match does not end until one of the competitors is killed. Your friend would not survive. 
PENK: But you might. 
HIROGEN: Give her a Blue Match, Penk. You wouldn't want to lose your new favourite her first time in the pit. 
PENK: Yes. We should start you off slowly. 
SEVEN: Treat him, and I will comply. 
[Mess hall]
TORRES: What about the seventh match? 
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking the Vensiddian. 
KIM: He lost his last two times out. 
CHAKOTAY: But he's undefeated against left-handed fighters. 
PARIS: You should trust him, Harry. Chakotay knows a thing or two about southpaws. 
TORRES: He was twenty three and oh as a light heavyweight. 
CHAKOTAY: Twenty three and and one, actually. A Nausicaan with a mean right hook. 
KIM: You think that's bad? Try taking a parrises mallet to the ribs. 
CHAKOTAY: I didn't know you played. 
KIM: Three time Academy champion. Now, that's a tough sport. 
CHAKOTAY: I boxed a few parrises players in my day. 
TORRES: And? 
CHAKOTAY: Let's just say they went back to playing parrises squares after that. 
KIM: Oh, was that a challenge, Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: I wouldn't want to put my Ops officer out of commission, now, would I? 
KIM: I can take a punch. 
TORRES: Careful, Harry. Legend has it that the Tattooed Terror has put more men in Sickbay than the Ankaran flu. 
PARIS: Yeah, you wouldn't want to bruise your clarinet fingers. 
KIM: Hey, you want to go a few rounds, or all you all talk? 
PARIS: Any time, any place. 
KIM: Oh, you punch like a Ferengi. 
[Corridor]
TORRES: I don't care what Harry says. The Pensarkan-Bendali match is too close to call. 
CHAKOTAY: I'll let you know how it turns out. 
TORRES: Excuse me? 
CHAKOTAY: I rearranged the duty schedules this morning. You've got the bridge starting at fourteen hundred hours. 
TORRES: You're sticking me with that shift so that you can go to the fight. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm delegating. 
TORRES: Me and my big mouth. 
CHAKOTAY: I thought you'd be pleased that I took your advice. 
TORRES: Words fail me. Now remind me. The reason that you have to see that fight is because? 
CHAKOTAY: I'm an anthropologist. 
TORRES: What does that have to do with Tsunkatse? 
CHAKOTAY: It's a cultural phenomenon. 
[Sickbay]
(Neelix' sunburn has blisters.)
EMH: You're having an allergic reaction to your leola ointment. I hope you've learned your lesson. Talaxian homeopathy is no substitute for medical science. This should help with the swelling and discoloration. 
NEELIX: Ow. 
EMH: But you'll have to stay out of the sun. 
NEELIX: What about the rest of my shore leave? 
EMH: I suggest you limit it to indoor activities. 
NEELIX: Commander Chakotay and B'Elanna invited me to the Tsunkatse matches. I guess I'll go.;
[Doctor's office]
EMH: I'm disappointed in you, Mister Neelix. Cheering for one individual to inflict serious injury on another hardly seems like an activity you'd enjoy. 
NEELIX: Well, Commander Chakotay says that it's a wonderful demonstration of athletic prowess. 
EMH: You seem to be forgetting that Commander Chakotay is an aficionado of boxing, arguably the most barbaric sport in Earth's history. Surely you can find some way to occupy your free time that doesn't involve alien fisticuffs. 
NEELIX: Do you have any suggestions? 
EMH: As a matter of fact, I was planning a visit to the Norcadian Museum of Entomology this afternoon. There's a fascinating exhibit of beetle larvae from the equatorial sub-continent. You're welcome to join me. 
NEELIX: Hmm, alien bugs, or alien fisticuffs. Ooo, that's a tough one. 
[Tsunkatse arena]
(This is a women's match.)
CROWD: Tsunkat, tsunkat, tsunkat.
NEELIX: You were right, Commander. This is exciting. Two opponents, alone in the pit, with only their strength and agility to protect them. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're enjoying yourself. 
NEELIX: I still don't understand the rules. 
CHAKOTAY: It's simple. A Tsunkatse fighter wears a polaron disruptor on both hands and feet. Each disruptor delivers a bio-plasmic charge when it comes in contact one of the opponent's target sensors. 
NEELIX: So there is strategy involved? 
CHAKOTAY: A fighter has to attack his rival's sensors without exposing his own. 
PARIS: Are you two going to talk, or you here to watch? 
(Enter the Champion. Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson, with a bit of an alien forehead. He raises an eyebrow and the crowd go wild.)
NEELIX: He looks like he could pick up a shuttlecraft. 
KIM: He's a Pendari. They're known for their superior strength. 
PARIS: And their bad temper. 
KIM: I hear they have a tendency to throw their opponents into the stands. 
PARIS: Be ready to duck. 
(His opponent enters.)
NEELIX: Seven? 
KIM: Seven! Seven! 
CHAMPION: You're no bigger than a Tarkanian field mouse. Penk's insulting me by putting you in the pit to face me. 
SEVEN: I must warn you. I possess superior strength. 
CHAMPION: I'm trembling. 
(He knocks her down before the starting bell has faded away.)
KIM: Seven! Seven! 
NEELIX: Seven! 
SEVEN: I assure you, resistance is futile. 
CHAMPION: So is all your talk. 
(She gets knocked down again.)
NEELIX: Seven! 
PARIS: It's no use. She can't hear us. 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Voyager. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Come in! 
TORRES: Calling to give me a blow-by-blow description of the match, Commander? 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Seven of Nine is in the pit.
TORRES: What? 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: No time to explain. Beam her out of there. 
[Tsunkatse arena]
(Seven gets a good contact with the champion's chest sensor. He falls to his knees.)
SEVEN: I have no desire to inflict further damage. 
CHAMPION: I'm afraid I can't say the same.
(And knocks her onto her back with his trademark move. She gets up and kicks him, and he punches her again.) 
[Bridge]
TORRES: I'm locked onto the coordinates of the pit. Seven's not there. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'm looking right at her! 
TORRES: Not according to these sensors. 
[Tsunkatse arena]
KIM: Maybe their lifesigns are masked? 
CHAKOTAY: Try recalibrating the bioscanners. 
[Bridge]
TORRES: Acknowledged. 
[Tsunkatse arena]
(The fighters fritz briefly.)
TORRES [OC]: There's nothing to lock onto. The only readings I'm picking up are photonic. 
KIM: Holograms? 
PARIS: They're transmitting the fight from another location. 
[Tsunkatse combat pit]
(And Seven is getting thrown around a lot.)
PENK: Transmission to one of the arenas on Norcadia Prime is being disrupted. Compensate. 
[Tsunkatse arena]
(Seven knocks the Champion down, but hesitates to finish the match. He kicks her, grabs her and slams her down onto the floor before punching her in the stomach. The fight is ended, and the Voyager spectators are the only ones not cheering.)
CROWD: Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat! 
CHAKOTAY: Voyager, four to beam up. 
[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've scanned the Norcadian surface, Captain. There's no sign of them. 
JANEWAY: Any luck tracing the transmission? 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're trying, but it's not easy. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: There are transmissions being sent to every planet in the sector. 
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I guess you aren't the only ones who enjoy this sport. 
TORRES: It could take days before we can figure out where Seven and Tuvok are being held. 
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: What about diplomatic channels? 
CHAKOTAY: Neelix is meeting with a group of Norcadian officials. 
JANEWAY: Well, let's hope he gets their cooperation. 
CHAKOTAY: When can we expect you back? 
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: I'm at the outer rim of the Pendari system. At best, I'm forty eight hours away. 
CHAKOTAY: Sorry to cut your vacation short. 
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: That's okay, Commander. Keep me informed. Janeway out. 
{Tsunkatse living quarters]
SEVEN: Stay away from me. 
HIROGEN: It's a dermal regenerator. The Pendari you fought injured you. Now, keep still. It's almost out of power. 
SEVEN: I prefer that you use it to treat Commander Tuvok. 
HIROGEN: I already have. He's sleeping. 
SEVEN: Why are you helping us? 
HIROGEN: I recognise fellow hunters when I see them. 
SEVEN: I'm no hunter. 
HIROGEN: I saw your match today. Your skills are impressive. 
SEVEN: The Pendari would disagree. 
HIROGEN: You almost defeated him. But at the last moment, you hesitated. You questioned your desire to destroy your prey. 
SEVEN: I have no such desire. 
HIROGEN: Don't you? I thought I saw it in your eyes. With the proper training, you could become a champion. 
SEVEN: Until our ship comes to rescue us, my only goal is to survive. 
HIROGEN: Do you know the difference between a survivor and a champion here? There isn't one. 
(Penk enters with his two armed bodyguards.)
PENK: I wanted to be the first to congratulate you. 
SEVEN: I lost. 
PENK: Exactly. There's a great deal of hostility toward the Borg in this sector. Whenever the Pendari landed a blow, our audience grew. We're getting tens of thousands of requests to see you fight again. 
HIROGEN: She needs time to recuperate, to prepare for her next bout. 
PENK: I agree. There's a Red Match scheduled for the day after tomorrow. The Pendari was supposed to compete, but I've entered you in his place. If three billion people paid to see you hurt, imagine how many will pay to see you die. 
(Penk leaves.)
SEVEN: Survival may be more difficult than I imagined. 
HIROGEN: You will win the match. 
SEVEN: What makes you say that? 
HIROGEN: I know your opponent. I know his weaknesses. I can train you to defeat him. 
SEVEN: I told you. I will not kill anyone in that arena. 
HIROGEN: Consider the alternative. 
SEVEN: Teach me. 
(Later -)
HIROGEN: You're letting your elbow fall, exposing your target. 
SEVEN: You're mistaken. My arm is positioned properly. When executing the Tanyk Defence, the blocking elbow must remain parallel to the median sensor. 
HIROGEN: Ah, The Book of Tsunkatse. 
SEVEN: Commander Tuvok borrowed it from one of the other fighters. 
HIROGEN: It is obvious you've studied it well. 
SEVEN: I'm attempting a defence against any 
(The Hirogen knocks her down.)
SEVEN: That was not one of the thirty three sanctioned manoeuvres. 
HIROGEN: There must be thirty four. 
SEVEN: I was unprepared for your attack. 
HIROGEN: Is that what you're going to say to your opponent? Stop thinking like a drone. Sanctioned manoeuvres, perfecting defences. You cannot assimilate Tsunkatse from a book. You must live it, feel it, in here. Your movements must become instinct. An attack can come at any time from any direction. You must learn to improvise. 
SEVEN: Like this?
(
She punches him and hurts him.)
SEVEN: I've observed you often favour your left side.;
HIROGEN: Very perceptive. It's a wound I sustained in one of my first matches. After nineteen years, it still hasn't healed properly. 
SEVEN: You've been here a long time. 
HIROGEN: I was taken during my son's first hunt. He was so proud to be with his father, watching every movement I made, imitating my gestures. But instead of bringing home his first trophy, he saw his father become someone else's prey. 
SEVEN: Do you know what happened to him? 
HIROGEN: I never saw him again. All Penk would say was that the boy was too small for competition. 
SEVEN: Perhaps he managed to return home. 
(The Hirogen kicks Seven, knocking her against a bunk bed.)
HIROGEN: You let down your defences. Why? 
SEVEN: I was 
HIROGEN: What? Feeling sorry for me and My tragic past? 
SEVEN: Yes. 
HIROGEN: You must never sympathise with your prey. Unless you accept that, you will die. We'll continue. 
[Transporter room]
CHAKOTAY: How did it go? 
NEELIX: Oh, the Norcadians were shocked to learn that off-worlders might be participating against their will. 
[Corridor]
NEELIX: The Ambassador promised to begin an immediate investigation. 
CHAKOTAY: You don't sound too convinced. 
NEELIX: I'm not. I spoke to one of the Pendari delegates. According to him, a huge percentage of the planet's revenue is derived from Tsunkatse. Nobody wants to do anything that might interfere with the game. 
CHAKOTAY: So they turn a blind eye to the recruitment tactics. 
NEELIX: We're not going to get any help through official channels. It's hard to believe, a civilisation whose favourite pastime is cheering while innocent people fight each other. 
[Turbolift]
CHAKOTAY: If Seven and Tuvok hadn't been abducted, we might still be cheering too. 
[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: What have you got? 
TORRES: Well, one of the reasons we were having trouble isolating the source of the transmissions was because they never seem to be coming from the same place twice. At first we thought the matches were being held in various locations. 
KIM: But when we connected the dots, we realised that the pattern conformed to a flight path. 
TORRES: One that spanned the entire sector. 
CHAKOTAY: They're transmitting the fights from a ship. 
NEELIX: Like a travelling carnival. 
KIM: Oh, this is no carnival. Five million metric tons, reinforced hull plating protected by covariant shielding. Neutronic weaponry. 
TORRES: It's way out of our weight class. 
CHAKOTAY: The bigger they come, Lieutenant. Transmit these coordinates to the Captain. Tell her we could use a hand. 
{Tsunkatse living quarters]
(Seven goes through solo moves.)
HIROGEN: Excellent. When your opponent enters the arena, what do you see? 
SEVEN: My prey. 
HIROGEN: And what do you do to your prey? 
SEVEN: Hunt it down and kill it. 
HIROGEN: Go rest before your match. 
SEVEN: Thank you. 
HIROGEN: Thank me by winning. (Seven goes to Tuvok, who is working on a control panel.)
SEVEN: Penk's guards are making their inspection rounds. Progress? 
TUVOK: Both the dampening field and the shielding of this vessel are tetryon-based, but without access to the control interface I can't disable either. Your training? 
SEVEN: Complete. 
TUVOK: Are you adequately prepared? 
SEVEN: The Hirogen is an efficient instructor. He believes I'll win. 
TUVOK: That troubles you? 
SEVEN: The idea of killing someone for the entertainment of others is detestable. 
TUVOK: Is the idea of losing your own life for the entertainment of others more palatable? As a drone, you took many lives. 
SEVEN: I was acting as part of the Collective. 
TUVOK: You're worried you won't have the strength to accomplish the task on your own. 
SEVEN: I'm worried that I will. 
(Penk enters.)
PENK: It's time. 
TUVOK: Do whatever it takes to survive. 
[Tsunkatse combat pit]
(Seven enters to boos from the crowd. She crosses the pit and waits for her opponent. The Hirogen enters to cheers.)
SEVEN: You knew. 
HIROGEN: Yes. 
(The signal for the bout to start. They circle each other.)
SEVEN: Training me was a deception. You wished to familiarise yourself with my weaknesses. 
HIROGEN: I was helping you to overcome them. 
SEVEN: Why? 
HIROGEN: Nineteen years is a long time. I've grown tired. 
SEVEN: You wish to be killed in the arena? 
HIROGEN: I want a death my son would be proud of. 
SEVEN: I won't be the one to provide it. 
HIROGEN: Then I'll be forced to kill you.
(The fight starts, and the Hirogen gets in the first blow.) 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Approaching the vessel. 
CHAKOTAY: Take us out of warp. Raise shields and charge weapons. Any sign of Tuvok and Seven? 
KIM: Our sensors can't penetrate their shields. 
CHAKOTAY: Hail them. 
PENK [on viewscreen]: This is not a convenient time. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the Starship Voyager. You're holding two of my people. 
PENK [on viewscreen]: You'll have to be more specific. 
CHAKOTAY: Commander Tuvok and Seven of Nine. Return them. Now. 
PENK [on viewscreen]: The Borg drone and her friend. I'm afraid she's occupied at the moment. 
CHAKOTAY: You have thirty seconds before I open fire. 
PENK: A fighter. I respect that. But you're no match for me. 
[Tsunkatse combat pit]
SEVEN: We can still find another way out of this. 
HIROGEN: There is no other way. You're still dropping your elbow. 
(He twists her arm behind her back.)
HIROGEN: Make a choice. Hunter or Prey? Hunter or Prey?
(She kicks herself free and retaliates. They trade blows. Voyager shoots at Penk's vessel.) 
[Bridge]
TORRES: Direct hit to their aft shield generators. 
KIM: Still no sign of Seven, but I've got a lock on Tuvok. 
CHAKOTAY: Beam him to Sickbay. Keep targeting those generators. 
KIM: Transport complete. 
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to Tuvok. 
TUVOK [OC]: Go ahead, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: Do you know Seven's status? 
[Sickbay]
TUVOK: She's being forced to fight to the death. I believe they're on the uppermost deck.;
[Bridge]
KIM: That section's protected by multiphasic force fields. I can't penetrate them. 
TORRES: Shields down to forty percent. Thirty two percent. 
[Tsunkatse combat pit]
HIROGEN: You're getting weak. I should have found worthier prey. 
(He throws Seven across the pit.)
HIROGEN: You're imperfect. (She does a flying kick, sending him spinning to the floor.)
HIROGEN: Is that the best you can do? 
[Bridge]
TORRES: Shields are down. 
CHAKOTAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Harry? 
KIM: Still can't get a lock. 
PARIS: Should I get us out of here before they knock out our propulsion? 
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. If we can't beam her out, maybe we can shut down the transmission. 
PARIS: If nobody's watching, then why continue the fight? 
CHAKOTAY: Start targeting their signal generators. 
KIM: Hull breach on deck eleven. 
CHAKOTAY: Seal it.
(Seven is starting to get the upper hand, and the crowd are going with her.)
TORRES: We've lost weapons. 
PARIS: Another vessel is approaching. 
TORRES: Great. Now they're bringing in reinforcements?
PARIS: No, this one's on our side. It's the Delta Flyer. 
[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Good to see you, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Nothing like getting back to work after a long vacation. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We need you to target their signal generators. 
JANEWAY: Understood. 
[Tsunkatse combat pit]
(The fight disappears from at least one arena.)
PENK: We've lost more than half our audience. Reroute power to transmitters five and six. 
[Bridge]
KIM: They've reduced power to their forcefields. I've got two lifesigns in there. Seven and a Hirogen but I can't get an individual lock. 
CHAKOTAY: Transport them both if you have to. Tom. 
PARIS: Aye, sir. 
[Tsunkatse combat pit]
(Seven and the Hirogen trade blows, then she gets in a kick to his left side. He falls to his knees. She places more punches on his chest sensor and he falls.)
CROWD: Tsunkat! Tsunkat! Tsunkat!
(Seven kneels next to him and raises both fists for the final blow.)
HIROGEN: Never let your prey suffer. Kill it.
(They are beamed away.) 
[Transporter room]
(An armed guard is waiting.)
PARIS: Seven, stand away. 
SEVEN: It's all right. This fight is over.
(She helps the Hirogen to his feet.) 
Captain's log, stardate 53529.4. We've resumed course for the Alpha quadrant and initiated repairs. I can't say I'm sorry to see this shore leave come to an end. 
[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: We located an Hirogen hunting party three light years away. They've agreed to rendezvous with us. 
HIROGEN: I'm grateful. 
SEVEN: Would you excuse us? 
EMH: Very well. But if you should need anything, an analgesic, a phaser rifle, don't hesitate to ask. 
SEVEN: I apologise for the Doctor. He's very protective of me. 
HIROGEN: He doesn't realise how well you defend yourself. 
(He removes his chest sensor.)
HIROGEN: A trophy. 
SEVEN: What will do you now, search for new prey? 
HIROGEN: No. This time I will be searching for my son. 
SEVEN: If he is as clever as his father, he may be difficult to locate. 
HIROGEN: I've been wondering. Would you have killed me? 
SEVEN: I don't know. 
HIROGEN: Fortunately, you were right. There was another way out. 
[Astrometrics lab]
TUVOK: I thought you might require assistance. 
SEVEN: Thank you. 
TUVOK: I realise we share an affinity for silences, but in this instance I feel compelled to speak. If you hadn't offered to take my place in the arena, it's likely I would have been killed. 
SEVEN: I made the logical choice, as you would have. 
TUVOK: Still, I owe you a debt of gratitude. 
SEVEN: Assisting me with these recalibrations will be sufficient thanks. 
TUVOK: Have you fully recovered? 
SEVEN: I'm experiencing minor pain beneath my occipital implant. The Doctor believes it is temporary. 
TUVOK: I wasn't referring to your physical condition. 
SEVEN: When the Hirogen referred to me as weak, he was correct. 
TUVOK: But you overpowered him. 
SEVEN: Because I lost control. 
TUVOK: Given the circumstances, your behaviour was understandable. 
SEVEN: I've spent the last three years struggling to regain my humanity. I'm afraid I may have lost it again in that arena. 
TUVOK: You're experiencing difficult emotions. 
SEVEN: Guilt, shame, remorse. 
TUVOK: Then you haven't lost your humanity. You have reaffirmed it. 

