Episode Number: 109
The Voyager Transcripts - Prime Factors
Prime Factors
Stardate: 48642.5
Original Airdate: March 20 1995
[Mess Hall]
(Torres is openly eyeing a man who has just collected a meal from the counter. She turns back to see Seska looking at her.) 
TORRES: What?
SESKA: I've seen that look before. Ensign Murphy had better watch out.
TORRES: I happen to know that Murphy is seeing one of the Delaney sisters.
SESKA: Not since Harry and Tom Paris made their move.
TORRES: Harry and the Delaney sisters? He would have told me.
SESKA: I guess there are some things he keeps to himself.
(Paris and Kim are at the next table.) 
TORRES: Harry, is it true about you and the Delaney sisters?
KIM: Is what true? 
SESKA: Come on Harry, there aren't any secrets on a ship this small.
KIM: What have you been telling people?
PARIS: Well, we did take that trip to Venice with them.
KIM: The holodeck? You've got to be kidding. That lasted all of fifteen minutes.
PARIS: Yeah, you know, I've been meaning to ask you. What happened when you and Jenny Delaney disappeared in that gondola?
KIM: Nothing.
TORRES: Harry, we're your friends. You can tell us.
KIM: Nothing. We talked, and then I fell over the side.
SESKA: You fell out of the gondola?
PARIS: I think maybe Harry wasn't quite prepared for how voracious Jenny Delaney can be.
(And at another table.) 
JANEWAY: I think it's finally beginning to happen. Both crews getting along.
TUVOK: That kind of bonding should improve performance and maximise efficiency.
JANEWAY: Yes, I'm sure it will.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway.
JANEWAY: Go ahead
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain, we're receiving a distress call in one of the lower subspace bands.
JANEWAY: I'm on my way. 
[Bridge]
(Janeway, Paris and Kim enter.) 
JANEWAY: Report, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: The subspace distress signal is coming from a vessel bearing one two five mark two one. Distance two hundred thousand kilometres.
KIM: Captain, sensors indicate five lifeforms aboard.
TUVOK: The vessel is altering it's course to intercept us. 
JANEWAY: Go to yellow alert and slow to impulse. Hail them, Mister Kim.
KIM: Aye, Captain.
(The image of a human looking man comes on the viewscreen.) 
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. What is the nature of your emergency?
GATH [on viewscreen]: We have no emergency.
JANEWAY: But you're sending out a distress call.
GATH [on viewscreen]: Yes, we are.
JANEWAY: Why?
GATH [on viewscreen]: Because you are in distress. I am Gathhorel Labin of the planet Sikaris. Please, let us welcome you to our system. Show you the hospitality of our people.
JANEWAY: that's very kind of you
GATH [on viewscreen]: If I could come aboard your ship, I have gifts for you and a proposal I hope you will find irresistible.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, make the necessary arrangements to receive our guest. 
[Mess hall]
(Neelix and Kes are working in the kitchen when Janeway and Gath enter. Tuvok follows.) 
JANEWAY: Mister Labin, it really isn't necessary to go to all this trouble.
GATH: Please. Call me Gath. And I promise you I would like nothing better than to prepare a few of our newest delicacies for you. Ah, this will be perfect.
NEELIX: Captain, I'm serving lunch in less that two hours.
JANEWAY: We won't be long, Neelix. This is Mister, this is Gath. He's from Sikaris.
(Gath takes dishes from a bag he was carrying.) 
NEELIX: Ah! Ooo. Sikaris!
JANEWAY: Do you know the planet?
NEELIX: Only stories about their incredible hospitality.
JANEWAY: Tell me, how do you know about us?
GATH: Our people are very well travelled. Some of them have brought back stories about the ship of aliens from another part of the galaxy. People lost and alone, struggling to find their way home again. 
(Janeway, Neelix and Kes sample Gath's food.) 
JANEWAY: This is wonderful.
GATH: And I decided to come and meet you and offer you respite.
TUVOK: Respite?
GATH: A vacation, if you will. Get away from the confines of the ship, enjoy the beauty of our landscape, meet and talk with interesting, learned people.
KES: And the crew would certainly welcome a little shore leave, Captain.
NEELIX: And I hear the Sikarians have a huge variety of edible plants. If we could collect some seeds, we'd expand our selection significantly.
JANEWAY: Sounds like all this would increase performance and maximise efficiency, don't you think, Mister Tuvok? 
TUVOK: Indeed.
JANEWAY: Well Gath, looks like you're getting visitors. We'll set a course and follow you in.
GATH: I could not be happier. 
[Plaza]
(Open, light, lots of steps and patterned tiled floor. There are some small stalls. Birds are singing.) 
GATH: If you see anything you like, just let me know.
JANEWAY: What is this material? It's so delicate.
GATH: Exquisite, isn't it? It's the latest import from Vedestris. It's spun from the petals of a flower that blooms only in moonlight. Shall I have a dress made for you?
JANEWAY: It's lovely but, no, thank you.
GATH: Is it so hard for you to accept a gift?
JANEWAY: All right, but something small. Maybe a scarf?
GATH: What a curious people you are. Tell me would it help if I said that you could have an entire wardrobe made from these beautiful fabrics and that it would give all of us great pleasure to create it for you.
JANEWAY: Let's start with the scarf.
GATH: As you like. Which cloth do you prefer?
(Elsewhere, Kim has found a young woman waving a device over what looks like a minimalist harp. It makes harmonic tones.) 
KIM: That's beautiful. Are you a musician?
EUDANA: This isn't a musical instrument. It's an atmospheric sensor. The frequency of the chimes indicates changes in weather conditions.
KIM: Then it must work on a principle of non-linear resonance, adjusting to the dynamic variables in the atmosphere.
EUDANA: That's exactly right. Are you a scientist?
KIM: In a sense. Can you show me how to operate it?
EUDANA: I'd be happy to. First, you have to initialise the sub-harmonic mode. 
(She switches on the hand device and Kim moves it around the struts and wires of the weather station. Janeway selects a blue patterned fabric.) 
JANEWAY: Oh, I think this one.
GATH: When I see you wearing that scarf, my pleasure will be greater than yours.
JANEWAY: Well, I should get back. But with your permission, I'd like to start organising teams to gather plants and seeds.
GATH: This is my associate, Jaret Otel. You may contact him to make any necessary arrangements.
JARET: We'll be glad to assist you in any way, Captain.
JANEWAY: I'll find my officers and we'll return to the ship.
GATH: Tonight we are having a celebration here. I hope you and your officers will be my guests.
JANEWAY: We'd be delighted. 
Captain's log, stardate 48642.5. The crew is enjoying an evening on Sikaris. They are discovering, to their delight, that reports of this species' hospitality have not been exaggerated. 
[Plaza]
(Kim is in casual clothes, reclining on cushions and telling the story.) 
KIM: So the whole thing exploded and there we were, seventy thousand light years from home and no way to get back. It felt pretty lonely.
EUDANA: That's a very noble story.
KIM: Noble?
EUDANA: Stories can be whimsical, or frightening, or melancholy, or many other things. But noble stories are the ones that can most affect our lives. May I have your permission to tell others this story?
KIM: Sure. It's no secret.
EUDANA:: But stories are an essential part of every person's being. I would never share one without permission.
KIM: Go right ahead. I've got a few others too.
EUDANA: You do? Come with me. I know a private place where you can tell me all your stories. 
(Eudana takes Kim to a raised circular dais, which is lit from below.) 
EUDANA: Stand close to me. Alastria. 
(Eudana and Kim beam out.) 
[Alastria]
KIM: Where are we?
EUDANA: The woods of Alastria, my favourite place. I usually come here when I want to spend time alone but, tonight it seemed right to bring you. Now, tell me your stories. All of them.
KIM: Why is it so much warmer here? 
(A breeze starts up.) 
KIM: What is that?
EUDANA: The dawn zephyr.
KIM: Dawn? We just got here. That's, that is an amazing feeling. What's happening?
EUDANA: The erosene winds, passion winds, come just before the dawn. The erosene creates euphoria. 
KIM: I'll say. Why am I seeing two suns?
EUDANA: Because this is a binary system.
KIM: But your planet only has one sun.
EUDANA: But Alastria has two.
KIM: Eudana, where are we?
EUDANA: I told you. Alastria. A system far from Sikaris.
KIM: How far?
EUDANA: Do you have to ask all these questions?
KIM: Please, it's important.
EUDANA: Alastria is about two and a half billion times the distance between Sikaris and it's sun.
KIM: That's almost forty thousand light years.
(Euphoric Eudana cuddles up to Kim.) 
EUDANA: Now, feel the breeze.
KIM: Er, we have to go back.
EUDANA: It's still night on Sikaris. We have plenty of time.
KIM: No, er, we're going back, and I need you to tell me everything you know about that platform that got us here. 
[Plaza]
GATH: And tomorrow night you must let me take you to the theatre.
JANEWAY: Oh my, I have lost all track of time. My crew has gone. I'm the last one here.
GATH: I hope that's because you're enjoying yourself.
JANEWAY: I am. 
(Gath slowly moves in for a kiss.) 
KIM: Captain! Excuse me for interrupting but I've just found out about something incredible.
JANEWAY: Calm down, Ensign. What is it?
KIM: That platform. It's a transportation device. Extremely sophisticated. It operates on the principle of folding space.
JANEWAY: That's something that's been theorised, but no one's ever been able to develop the technology.
KIM: Well, these people have. I've just been to Alastria and back. Alastria is forty thousand light years away.
GATH: We call it a spatial trajector. We are able to travel to all the planets in this quadrant.
JANEWAY: How far can it take you?
GATH: Alastria is at the uttermost limits of it's range.
KIM: Apparently it's never been used to move anything as large as Voyager, but as I understand the principle of space folding, the size of the object isn't relevant.
JANEWAY: What do you think? Would it be possible to modify your technology so we could use it?
EUDORA: I tried to tell him.
JANEWAY: What is it?
GATH: We cannot share our technology. Once it's out of our control, it might fall into the hands of those who would abuse it, and our canon of laws strictly forbids that.
KIM: But we wouldn't abuse it. Don't you see what it would mean to us?
GATH: Please, don't make it more difficult for me. I don't enjoy denying you this, but our canon of laws has determined our entire system of values. To break one of it's precepts would undermine everything we believe in. I'm sorry, but there can be no exceptions to the law. 
[Briefing room]
KIM: I can't believe they're not going to help us. Some kind of hospitality. 
TORRES: Forty thousand light years. Even if that's as far as we could go, it would still knock about four decades off our trip.
CHAKOTAY: And the possibility exists that we could reconfigure the matrix at that point to take us another thirty thousand light years, right into Federation space.
TUVOK: Since they've already said no, this kind of thinking is only going to make you feel worse.
JANEWAY: It's the first time we've been on the other side of the fence.
PARIS: What fence?
JANEWAY: The one that's made of binding principles. We have our own set of rules, which includes the Prime Directive. How many times have we been in the position of refusing to interfere when some kind of disaster threatened an alien culture. It's all very well to say we do it on the basis of an enlightened principle, but how does that feel to the aliens? I'm sure many of them think the Prime Directive is a lousy idea. 
PARIS: Even we think so sometimes.
CHAKOTAY: I know of many times when Starfleet personnel have decided on strong ethical grounds to ignore it. 
KIM: Still, there's a reason why it's Starfleet's General order number one. On the whole, it does a lot more good than harm.
TUVOK: Captain, it occurs to me that we know little about the Sikarians. We cannot assume that their first refusal is unalterable. It may be that no is simply a prelude to negotiation.
TORRES: He's right, maybe they can be reasoned with.
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they want something. Maybe they'll bargain.
PARIS: But what do we have to offer? They seem to have everything they need.
KIM: Stories. Stories are an important part of their culture. They seem to provide more than entertainment. They're kind of a measuring rod of values and beliefs. We have a huge library in our databanks. We could offer them the whole thing. All the great literature of dozens of cultures.
CHAKOTAY: What do you think, Captain? Would they be interested?
JANEWAY: They just might be. From what we've seen of them, they're a remarkably pleasure oriented people. They might appreciate a gift of literature. I'll arrange to meet with Gath. As Magistrate he has the authority to make this decision.
TORRES: In the meantime, I'm going to take a look at that trajector platform. Maybe I can figure out how it works. 
JANEWAY: You'll do nothing of the sort, Lieutenant. If I find this law is negotiable, I'll make every attempt to get the technology, but until then we won't do anything that might violate their canon of laws as we understand it. That's all.
(Everyone leaves except Kim and Torres.) 
KIM: What's wrong?
TORRES: I just hope she gets it.
KIM: She will. 
[Janeway's quarters]
(Janeway is entertaining Gath with a piece of pie.) 
GATH: Exquisite. What did you say you call it?
JANEWAY: Pecan pie.
GATH: I must have the recipe.
JANEWAY: I'd be happy to share it with you. Gath, I want you to know I understand your reluctance to share your technology with us. We have similar restrictions. But I wondered, would it make any difference if I gave you my word that we would destroy the trajector matrix as soon as we'd used it?
GATH: I know this will upset you, but I can't.
JANEWAY: I understand. And frankly, I suspected as much. But I have a proposal which might allow you to obey your laws and still give us what we want. Surely you could use the trajectory to send us? Forty thousand light years would mean a great deal to us. And in return, we're prepared to offer you something you might enjoy.
GATH: Oh?
JANEWAY: A full library of the Federation's finest literature.
GATH: Literature? 
JANEWAY: Centuries of stories. New stories from diverse cultures. Stories that fire the imagination.
GATH: You certainly know how to tempt me, Captain. It's certainly possible. I'll have to meet with the other Magistrates to discuss it. No one has ever made a request like that. In the meantime, I'd like to enjoy every bite of this, how did you call it?
JANEWAY: Pecan pie. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: I've finished the maintenance check on the shock attenuation cylinders. They�ll have to be replaced in another two thousand hours but we'll face that problem when we come to it. Seska?
(Seska breaks out of her reverie.) 
SESKA: Sorry. I wasn't concentrating. What did you say?
TORRES: You looked a million light years away.
SESKA: No, only about seventy thousand. My brother's birthday is in four days. Last year I promised I'd meet him on Nivoch, celebrate with him. He'll think I broke my promise, that I'm dead. What are you doing?
TORRES: I've been thinking. The folding of space should leave a sub-space residue. If we can detect one, we might be a step closer to knowing how the trajector works.
(Torres calls up Quantum Analysis 7429 on a wall station.) 
SESKA: Look at that neutrino dispersion pattern. Could that be a result of space folding?
TORRES: Maybe. If the device creates a neutrino bubble around whatever's being trajectored.
CAREY: If that's the case, we'd need a bubble big enough for the ship. Don't worry Lieutenant. I'm with you on this one. After all, it doesn't hurt to theorise.
SESKA: Right. And hypothetically, if we could modify the deflector array to emit phased neutrinos, we could create a big enough bubble.
TORRES: Let's give it a try. In theory, of course. 
[Alleyway]
(Twilight.) 
KIM: I don't understand. Why is it so important I come here now?
EUDANA: You'll see in a minute. We're here.
JARET: Good evening, Ensign. Thank you for coming.
KIM: What's this about?
JARET: I asked Eudana to invite you here because I was sure you would respond to her, and because it would look perfectly natural. I am prepared to accept your collection of literature in exchange for our trajector technology.
KIM: Is that something you're authorised to do?
JARET: Officially? No. But many people believe that rules should be flexible enough to meet the needs of the moment. There is a great desire here for new stories and I want to be the one to supply them.
KIM: So you'd stand to benefit from this arrangement, right?
JARET: We will both benefit. I would gain prestige and you would gain forty thousand light years in your journey home, possibly more. This is it, Ensign. The matrix of the trajector.
(Jaret gives Kim a device.) 
KIM: Captain Janeway has asked the Magistrate to send us forty thousand light years.
JARET: He won't. He never had any intention of helping you leave here.
EUDANA: Jaret is right. I know how much it means to you to get home. Please, listen to him.
JARET: You must believe me when I tell you this is the only way you will make that journey. Consider my offer. I'm sure you will decide it is a fair one. 
[Mess hall]
KIM: I don't know what to do. I know we'd all like to get that much closer to home, but I don't think Captain Janeway is going to go for getting the technology like that.
TORRES: Maybe she will. After all, it's a Sikarian who's making the offer.
PARIS: But it's not above board. The Captain is only going to deal with an official representative.
CREWMAN [OC]: Bridge to Ensign Kim. The Captain can see you now.
PARIS: Just tell her everything you know. Let her take it from there.
KIM: Right.
PARIS: I'll walk you part way. I'm headed for bed.
(Paris and Kim leave.) 
TORRES: Somehow, I have a bad feeling about this. It's just not going to work out.
SESKA: Don't you think that's up to us?
TORRES: What does that mean?
SESKA: It means that we can sit here and let someone make the decision for us, or we can take matters into our own hands. We've been offered the grand prize. All we have to do is step up and claim it.
TORRES: Take the technology? Without permission?
SESKA: Since when do you talk like that? Do you think that permission is more important than getting us half way home? The Captain is so infatuated with the Sikarian Magistrate she can't think straight. We can't trust that she's going to make the best decision for all of us. If we do this, we'll need to use engineering to configure the matrix. It would be a lot easier if we knew we could count on you.
TORRES: Seska, I am a senior officer now. I have responsibilities. 
SESKA: And the main responsibility for everyone on this ship is to try to find a way home. Captain Janeway made that clear from the beginning. That's our primary mission. Just think about it, that's all. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Did Jaret explain what he meant when he said Gath had no intention of helping us leave?
KIM: No, he just made it clear that our only choice was to get the trajector technology from him.
TUVOK: He may simply want us to believe that so we would deal with him.
JANEWAY: Possibly. But somehow I suspect he's right. Thank you for coming to me with this, Ensign. It may muddy the situation somewhat, but it helps me force the issue. Dismissed.
KIM: Goodnight, Captain. Lieutenant.
(Kim leaves.) 
JANEWAY: Oh, Tuvok, what do I do now?
TUVOK: You would seem to have two options. Continue to negotiate with a man who may have a hidden agenda, or deal with a man who is willing to defy his own laws.
JANEWAY: Not very pretty choices.
TUVOK: At least if you deal with Jaret, it is his law that is being compromised, not ours.
JANEWAY: But does that matter? I told the crew when we started this journey that we'd be a Starfleet crew, behaving as Starfleet would expect us to. That means there's a certain standard I have to uphold. Principles, principles. That's what it comes down to. Do I compromise my almighty principles? But how do I not compromise them if it involves a chance to get the crew more than half way home. How do I tell them my principles are so important that I would deny them that opportunity.
TUVOK: I believe the first thing you must do is determine whether Gath is willing to use the trajector to help us. If that possibility exists at all, you must explore it.
JANEWAY: You're right. Thank you, Tuvok. 
[Plaza]
JANEWAY: Have you spoken with the other Magistrates about using the trajector?
GATH: Actually, I haven't. Some of them are travelling now but I assure you I will do it. 
(A merchant holds out some goods, and Gath sighs with boredom.) 
GATH: I've already seen all those.
JANEWAY: It's becoming a matter of some urgency.
GATH: Oh? Why?
JANEWAY: We've imposed on you for long enough.
GATH: Not true. We welcome you for as long as you can stay. And I hope that's a very long time indeed. 
JANEWAY: My crew is eager to continue our journey. Once they realised the trajector might bring us forty thousand light years closer to home.
GATH: Why are you so consumed with this desire to get home? I find it difficult to understand.
JANEWAY: Home is home. It's where we belong.
GATH: Couldn't you create a new home here, with us? Can you imagine a more delightful place to live, where you could pass your time extracting pleasure from every moment. I promise you, you and I have many such moments to explore. 
(Gath kisses Janeway's hand.) 
JANEWAY: Yes, but for how long? I've seen how quickly you get tired of your pleasures. All that interests you is what's new and unexplored. After a day or two it becomes commonplace.
GATH: Yes?
JANEWAY: We prefer permanence. The reward of relationships that endure and grow deeper with the passing of time.
GATH: You would loose those notions if you stayed with us.
JANEWAY: You may be right. And that's why we have to leave.
GATH: We have offered you nothing but hospitality. Is this how you repay us? With an attack on our beliefs?
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. I was just trying to illustrate the differences between us.
GATH: I don't enjoy being judged like this. It's very upsetting. Not at all pleasurable.
JANEWAY: That's all you really care about, isn't it? Your pleasure. All your hospitality, your graciousness, it was never about giving us pleasure. It's all been to gratify yourselves. We're nothing more than the latest novelty.
GATH: You're hostile and vicious. You would infect the joyousness of our lives. You must leave immediately.
JANEWAY: You never had any intention of helping us, did you?
GATH: Of course I did. I did everything in my power to persuade you to stay here.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voyager. One to beam up. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Cancel all shore leave and recall the away teams. We've been asked to leave.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain.
(Tuvok and Janeway talk quietly in a corner.) 
TUVOK: I assume that means Gath will not be assisting us.
JANEWAY: I don't think he ever had any intention of helping us. He just strung us along.
TUVOK: Are you considering Jaret's offer?
JANEWAY: Oh, I wish I could, but I can't.
CHAKOTAY: Captain, it'll take hours to get everyone up. We've got crewmembers scattered throughout both hemispheres.
JANEWAY: Get them back as quickly as you can, Commander. I think we've overextended our stay here. I'll be in my Ready room. 
[Mess hall]
SESKA: I've downloaded the Federation Library. It's all on these chips. We know the man to contact, he wants the Library and he doesn't care who gives it to him.
TORRES: We're under orders. 
SESKA: B'Elanna, right now our people are still fighting Cardassians, dying for our cause. Settlers in the demilitarised zone are still under attack. We made a promise, B'Elanna, that we'd all stick together until the Zone was safe, and I intend to keep that promise.
CAREY: I have a wife, and two little boys. I don't want them to grow up without a father. I'd do anything to prevent that.
SESKA: We're not the only ones. Everyone wants to get back. They're just waiting for someone to act.
CAREY: I've been working on the theory that the trajector operates within a neutrino envelope. If that's true, I think we can use it as many times as we need, until we're all the way home.
SESKA: Just think, by tomorrow we could be there.
TORRES: All right, let's do it. 
[Transporter room]
TORRES: With shore leave cancelled, can we get to the surface undetected?
SESKA: We'll have to override the security lock-out but that shouldn't be a problem.
CAREY: It's not accepting my security code.
SESKA: Re-initialise the lock out buffers.
CAREY: I did. It's not working. Someone's altered the security sub-routine.
TORRES: Why would anyone do that?
SESKA: Never mind. Beam me down.
TORRES: Are you crazy? Security will find you out before you get there.
(Tuvok enters.) 
TUVOK: I altered the security sub-routines. Any attempt to over-ride the lock out would have alerted me to your presence here. Is this Voyager's library which you intended to trade for the trajector technology?
SESKA: Yes.
TUVOK: When I attempted to download it, I noticed it had already been accessed.
TORRES: You were going to download it?
TUVOK: I will make the exchange with Jaret Otel. Return to your stations. Do what you can to prepare the ship for the matrix. Energise. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Mister Tuvok is on the surface now, Captain. He says the remaining away teams should be on board in fifteen minutes.
JANEWAY: Are all the food supplies secured?
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. As soon as the last of the crew gets back, we'll be ready to leave.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES [OC]: Torres here.
JANEWAY: We'll be leaving orbit within minutes. 
[Engineering]
JANEWAY [OC]: Ready all propulsion systems. 
TORRES: We're ready now, Captain.
SESKA: Where's Tuvok?
TORRES: He'll be here. We certainly won't leave without him.
SESKA: Well, what's keeping him?
TORRES: Calm down. You're going to draw attention to yourself.
(Tuvok enters and hands over the device that Jaret had shown Kim.) 
TUVOK: Do not attempt to activate the device until I've spoken to Captain Janeway.
(Tuvok leaves. Seska takes the device from Torres.) 
TORRES: What are you doing? He said not to activate it!
SESKA: I'm not. I'm just going to try the interface simulation. We don't know even if it will interface. We can give ourselves a head start by testing it now.
TORRES: All right. But just a simulation.
(Seska plugs it into a console and switches it on.) 
SESKA: It's working.
CAREY: I was right. It operates within a neutrino envelope.
SESKA: The trajector field is bigger than anything we've created by ten orders of magnitude.
CAREY: To get a field that size, you'd need an amplifier as big as a planet!
SESKA: I don't understand. How do they get that kind of amplification?
TORRES: I'll show you. Sikaris has a mantle of tetrahedral quartz twenty kilometres thick. The crystalline structure of the mantle seems to focus and amplify the trajector field.
CAREY: If that's how the power transfer occurs, then once we leave orbit we loose the ability to traject.
TORRES: We don't have time to test it. We'll have to try it now, or forget it.
SESKA: Do it!
TORRES: If there are any compatibility problems 
SESKA: Then we can abort. This is our only chance.
JANEWAY [OC]: Bridge to Engineering.
TORRES: Torres here. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We're ready to leave orbit. Thrusters online.
TORRES [OC]: Aye Captain. 
[Engineering]
SESKA: We have to do something. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, take us out of orbit. Four thousand kph.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. There's no response. Thrusters are offline.
JANEWAY: Janeway to Engineering. 
[Engineering]
JANEWAY [OC]: What's going on, Lieutenant? 
TORRES: We've got a phase variance in plasma conduit three. I'll have to check it out before we can engage thrusters. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: When did this problem show up?
TORRES [OC]: Just now, Captain. It's only a slight variance, I'll have it fixed in a minute.
JANEWAY: Keep me advised. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: All right, the matrix is activating.
SESKA: The trajector field is forming.
CAREY: And it's amplifying. Look how fast it's expanding!
TORRES: That's the effect of the quartz mantle.
SESKA: We're nearly at full field strength. This is going to work. 
(Alarms sound.) 
CAREY: What is it?
TORRES: The plasma manifold is becoming unstable.
SESKA: I can compensate for that!
CAREY: The manifold is being bombarded by anti-neutrinos from the trajector field.
SESKA: Anti-neutrinos?
TORRES: They must be the catalyst for the space-folding process. 
SESKA: It's not working. I can't compensate for the instability.
CAREY: There's no way to compensate for a field that size! 
(Boom, and steam from near the warp core.) 
[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm showing an unstable plasma manifold. We're heading for a breach.
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. What's happening? 
[Engineering]
JANEWAY [OC]: We're reading a warp core breach up here.
TORRES: We're on it, Captain. No time to talk. Shut down the matrix!
SESKA: I can't! It's not responding! 
CAREY: It's fused!
SESKA: Plasma temperature at forty three million Kelvins.
TORRES: Carey, get everybody out!
CAREY: All right, people, let's go. Move it out! Move out, let's go, right now. Let's go. Come on, move it out. Fast! Right now. Keep moving!
(The matrix is stuck in the console.) 
TORRES: I can't unlock it! The command matrix is sealed.
SESKA: Plasma temperature at fifty million Kelvin. 
(Torres phasers the trajector matrix.)
SESKA: Anti-neutrino bombardment has stopped. Plasma temperature dropping.
TORRES: We didn't anticipate anti-neutrinos. The trajector could never be compatible with Federation technology.
SESKA: I'll start erasing the sensor logs. We can blame it on the phase discrepancy.
TORRES: No! We're not going to cover this up.
SESKA: Are you crazy? We don't have to take the blame for this!
TORRES: But we're going to. We disobeyed orders, gambling that it would pay off. It didn't. And now we just can't pretend that nothing happened.
SESKA: I don't understand. There's no need for this.
TORRES: I'm sorry if you don't get it, Seska, but it has something to do with, er, with being able to live with yourself.
SESKA: That doesn't sound like you. You've changed.
TORRES: If that's true, I take it as a compliment. 
[Ready room]
TORRES: I take full responsibility for what happened. There were others involved, but I was the senior officer, and the culpability is mine.
TUVOK: Lieutenant Torres is not precisely correct, Captain. She was not the senior officer involved, I was.
JANEWAY: You?
TUVOK: It was I who made the exchange. The Federation Library for the trajector matrix.
JANEWAY: I will deal with you in a moment. (to Torres) I don't have the luxury of throwing you in the brig for the rest of this voyage. I need you. I need every person on this ship. But I want you to know how very deeply you have disappointed me. If there are any further transgressions, even a minor one, you will no longer be an officer on this crew. Is that clear?
TORRES: Yes, Ma'am.
JANEWAY: Dismissed. 
(Torres leaves.) 
JANEWAY: I don't even know where to start. I want you to explain to me how you, of all people, could be involved in this.
TUVOK: It is quite simple, Captain. You have made it clear on many occasions that your highest goal for the crew is to get them home. But in this instance, your standards would not allow you to violate Sikarian law. Someone had to spare you the ethical dilemma. I was the logical choice, and so I chose to act.
JANEWAY: You did it for me because you knew I couldn't.
TUVOK: I accept the consequences of my actions. I expect to loose my commission and to be court-martialled when we return to Federation space.
JANEWAY: You are one of my most valued officers and you are my friend. It is vital that you understand me here. I need you, but I also need to know that I can count on you. You are my counsel, the one I turn to when I need my moral compass checked. We have forged this relationship for years and I depend on it. I realise you made a sacrifice for me, but it's not one I would have allowed you to make. You can use logic to justify almost anything. That's it's power, and it's flaw. From now on, bring your logic to me. Don't act on it behind my back.
TUVOK: You have my word. My logic was not in error, but I was.
JANEWAY: Dismissed. 

