Episode Number: 721
The Voyager Transcripts - Renaissance Man
Renaissance Man
Stardate: 54890.7
Original Airdate: 16 May 2001
[Delta Flyer]
(The EMH is singing Rigoletto 
con gusto.)
EMH: Questa o quella per me pari sono a quant'altre d'intorno mi vedo, del mio core l'impero non cedo meglio ad una che ad altre belta. La costoro avvenenza e qual dono di che ilfato ne infiora la vita. S'oggi questa mi torna gradita, forse un'altra, forse un'altra. 
(During this vigorous recital, Janeway enters from the aft compartment with a face like thunder. He feels the vibes and stops.)
EMH: Captain. Computer, pause music. I didn't wake you, did I? 
JANEWAY: That's all right, Doctor. Fifteen minutes of sleep is really all I need. Coffee, black. Maybe you should pay a little more attention to flying and a little less to singing. 
EMH: As a hologram, I can handle a variety of tasks at once. In addition to piloting the Flyer, I'm writing a paper on the physiological stresses of long duration space flight, and taking holo-images of this Mutara class nebula. 
JANEWAY: With a hologram on board, who needs a crew? 
EMH: I'd never admit this to anyone else, but there was a time when I would have given anything to be flesh and blood. But I've come to realise that being a hologram is far superior. 
JANEWAY: Really? 
EMH: No offence. I'll always enjoy the company of organics. In fact, I'm delighted you were able to attend this medical symposium with me. It's been a pleasure spending time with you. Actually, I was hoping we might do this sort of thing more often. 
(Shudder, beep.)
EMH: Hmm. We're passing through a subspace eddy. 
JANEWAY: It could be the wake of another ship. 
EMH: No, there's nothing on sensors. It's probably just the gravimetric shear from the nebula. 
JANEWAY: Maybe I should take the controls. 
EMH: Sit down and relax, Captain. You've got a hologram at the helm. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: The plasma surges have to be coming from one of these relays. (to Vorik) Try realigning the deuterium manifolds. 
(A relay shorts out.)
PARIS [OC]: Paris to Torres. 
TORRES: Go ahead. 
PARIS [OC]: Can you pull yourself away from engineering for a few minutes? I've got a shuttle down here with faulty deflector array. 
TORRES: I'm a little busy right now. 
PARIS [OC]: It's kind of urgent. 
[Shuttlecraft]
(In the shuttlebay. Paris is wearing a very brightly patterned shirt, and unpacking a picnic.)
TORRES: What's this? 
PARIS: Well, I thought you'd enjoy a romantic lunch under the glow of a red giant. 
TORRES: Oh, you replicated potato salad. 
PARIS: With extra paprika, just the way you like it. 
TORRES: This is so sweet. But I can't. 
PARIS: Sure you can. I've already cleared it with Chakotay. 
TORRES: I told the captain I'd have the dilithium matrix recalibrated before she got back. 
PARIS: You know, this might be our last chance to be alone for the next eighteen years. 
(In between kisses.)
TORRES: I will make some time before the baby comes, I promise. Oh, I've got to get back. 
[Bridge]
(Kim is in the Captain's chair and Ayala is at the helm.)
KIM: Report. 
AYALA: There's some kind of pulse being directed at our transceiver array. It's coming from the Delta Flyer. 
KIM: Hail them. 
AYALA: No response. 
KIM: Looks like they've encoded the pulse with a comm. signal. 
(He puts the signal on the viewscreen.)
KIM: Captain.
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: Sorry about the image, Ensign. Our comm. system's been damaged. The only way I could send you a signal was through the main deflector. 
KIM: Are you and the Doctor all right? 
JANEWAY [on viewscreen]: We're fine. Tell Commander Chakotay to meet me in my ready room as soon as we've docked. Janeway out. 
[Ready room]
CHAKOTAY: Harry tells me the Flyer took some damage.
JANEWAY: That's an understatement. We almost didn't make it back in one piece. They're called the R'Kaal. Their technology is decades ahead of ours. Transphasic warp drive, multi-spectral cloaking systems. They could destroy this ship before our sensors knew they were there. 
CHAKOTAY: They sound like people we should avoid. 
JANEWAY: I wish that were possible. They control thousands of parsecs from here to the edge of the Beta Quadrant. They're ecological extremists. They believe conventional warp engines damage subspace, so they've outlawed warp travel through their territory. 
CHAKOTAY: Then we should reverse course and find a way around. 
JANEWAY: That's the problem. We've already been in their space for three weeks without knowing it. 
CHAKOTAY: You'd think they'd mark their borders a little more clearly.
JANEWAY: As punishment, their law demands that our ship be dismantled. 
CHAKOTAY: Obviously we're not going to let that happen.
JANEWAY: I spent three hours explaining our situation to their Supreme Archon, a thoroughly unpleasant man. I convinced him to spare Voyager, but at a price. We're going to rendezvous with their armada and surrender our warp core at a class M planet where they've agreed to let us settle. 
CHAKOTAY: Settle? 
JANEWAY: I didn't make this decision lightly, Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: We have to bring the senior staff in on this. We can find a way to evade their ships, or adapt our sensors to their cloaking technology. 
JANEWAY: We could try that, and we might make it past their armada, but we could lose a lot of people in the process. Maybe the entire ship. 
CHAKOTAY: Kathryn, there's got to be another way. 
JANEWAY: I'm tired, Chakotay. Tired of casualty reports, of continually risking my people on the slim chance that we'll make it home in one piece. 
CHAKOTAY: We've found our way out of worse situations. 
JANEWAY: Set a course.
CHAKOTAY: What am I supposed to tell the crew? 
JANEWAY: For now, I'd like to keep this between us. 
CHAKOTAY: It's not like you to keep your people in the dark
JANEWAY: I'll make an announcement when the time is right. Dismissed. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Captain. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to interrupt, but I could use your input on a hypothetical scenario. 
TORRES: Of course. 
JANEWAY: If we were to eject the core, could it be towed safely at warp?
TORRES: In theory. But a tractor beam might destabilise the containment field. You'd be risking a breach. 
JANEWAY: Could you compensate for that? 
TORRES: You could configure the tractor emitters to generate a resonance pulse. That should stabilise the field. 
JANEWAY: Can you make those modifications to the Delta Flyer's tractor emitters? 
TORRES: I suppose. 
JANEWAY: How long would it take? 
TORRES: Er, a few hours. 
JANEWAY: Get started. 
TORRES: I thought this was a hypothetical scenario. 
JANEWAY: We should be prepared, just in case.
TORRES: In case of what? 
JANEWAY: Let me know as soon as you're finished. 
(Janeway leaves.)
TORRES: Torres to Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Go ahead. 
TORRES: Have you got a minute? 
[Bridge]
(Chakotay sits and talks quietly.)
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna tells me you ordered some modifications to the Flyer.
JANEWAY: That's right. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe I misunderstood. I thought the plan was to hand over the core when we reached the planet. Are we taking it somewhere else? 
(Janeway looks down to her right and whispers.)
JANEWAY: I heard you the first time. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain? 
JANEWAY: You've already made your concerns clear, Commander, but there's been a slight change of plans. 
CHAKOTAY: Were you going to tell me? Kathryn, what's going on? 
JANEWAY: I don't feel well. I've got a headache. I'm going to my quarters and I'd prefer not to be disturbed. You have the bridge. 
(As she passes Tuvok.)
JANEWAY: Not now. 
TUVOK: I beg your pardon, Captain? 
JANEWAY: Carry on, Commander. 
[Sickbay]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the Doctor. 
EMH [OC]: Go ahead, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: Report to Sickbay immediately. 
(The EMH beams in.) 
CHAKOTAY: Something wrong with the turbolifts? 
EMH: You did say immediately. How can I help you? 
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned about the Captain. She doesn't seem to be feeling well. 
EMH: What's wrong? 
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure. She went to her quarters with a headache. 
EMH: I'll bring her an analgesic.
CHAKOTAY: I was wondering if this could be related to your encounter with the aliens. 
EMH: You think they harmed her?
CHAKOTAY: You tell me. What did they do to her? 
EMH: I'm not sure, exactly. The aliens took my programme offline as soon as they boarded the Flyer. The captain reactivated me a few hours later and told me she'd been interrogated. Naturally, I examined her to make sure she was all right. 
CHAKOTAY: Did you find anything unusual? 
EMH: I suppose I'm violating doctor-patient confidentiality by telling you this but, she was fine. 
CHAKOTAY: I'd like you to give her a more thorough examination. 
EMH: Gladly. But you know how she feels about physicals. 
CHAKOTAY: You can be very persuasive, Doctor. Contact me as soon as you're done. 
EMH: Aye, sir. 
[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: Anything interesting on sensors this morning? 
SEVEN: Nothing extraordinary. A red giant and two G type stars, a Golorian trading vessel bearing one five six mark four. 
CHAKOTAY: If there were a fleet of cloaked ships in the vicinity, could you devise a way to detect them? 
SEVEN: A cloaked fleet would generate significant subspace distortions. Why do you ask? 
KIM [OC]: Commander, we're receiving a transmission. 
CHAKOTAY: Source? 
KIM [OC]: I'm having trouble pinpointing it. Should I notify the captain?;
CHAKOTAY: No, she didn't want to be disturbed. Route the call here. 
(A reptilian alien appears.)
CHAKOTAY: I'm Commander Chakotay of the starship Voyager. 
LOTH [on screen]: This is Supreme Archon Loth of the R'Kaal Imperium. Why haven't you ejected your warp core as your captain agreed? 
CHAKOTAY: We're en route to the planet you specified. We can't jettison the core until we get there. 
LOTH [on screen]: If we don't receive the core within ten hours, my armada will destroy your ship. This is your only warning.
CHAKOTAY: Work with Harry. I want to know the source of that transmission.
SEVEN: Understood. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Ah, Commander. You'll be relieved to know I've given the captain a clean bill of health. 
CHAKOTAY: Did you run a neurological scan? 
EMH: Mmm hmm. Her brain activity and cognitive functions are completely normal. As far as I can tell she's perfectly fit, physically and mentally. 
CHAKOTAY: Thank you, Doctor. 
[Outside Janeway's quarters]
(Chakotay rings the doorbell, but there is no answer.)
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to the captain. Computer, locate Captain Janeway. 
(Janeway walks around the corner.)
JANEWAY: Computer, belay that. My quarters, now. 
[Janeway's quarters]
JANEWAY: Really, Chakotay. Sending the Doctor to check up on me. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm concerned. 
JANEWAY: Then why didn't you come to me directly? I thought we trusted each other. 
CHAKOTAY: So did I. Something happened on that away mission that you're not telling me. 
JANEWAY: I've told you everything you need to know. 
CHAKOTAY: You've consulted me on every major decision over the last seven years, except this one. Why? 
JANEWAY: There are some decisions a captain has to make on her own. 
CHAKOTAY: I understand that, but every instinct tells me what you're doing is wrong. Don't you remember what happened on Lesik Prime? 
JANEWAY: I don't see how that's relevant. 
CHAKOTAY: I think you do. Fifteen years ago, you were the lieutenant who was kept in the dark. If you hadn't questioned your captain's orders, the entire away team would have been lost. 
JANEWAY: This situation's entirely different. 
CHAKOTAY: You never told me that story. I made it up. Chakotay to Tuvok.
JANEWAY: I've erected a dampening field around these quarters. I'm sorry, Commander. 
(Janeway overpowers Chakotay and uses a hypospray to knock him out.) 
[Morgue]
JANEWAY: Computer, secure the doors and establish a level five dampening field around the morgue. 
(She opens one stasis chamber and beams Chakotay into it. Then she takes his comm. badge and closes the chamber.) 
[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: I can't do my job with the two of you constantly talking in my head. 
(She puts her foot up on the desk to reveal the mobile emitter attached to the top of her boot. Then she morphs into the EMH.) 
EMH: No. I'm not doing anything else until I speak with the captain. Fine. What's your encryption frequency? 
[Overlooker's ship]
EMH [on monitor]: Captain, are you all right?
JANEWAY: Doctor, listen to me. Under no circumstances are you to eject the warp core. 
EMH [on monitor]: If I don't do what they ask, they'll kill you. 
JANEWAY: I'm giving you a direct order. Stop what you're doing. 
EMH [on monitor]: I'm sorry, Captain. I can't obey that order. 
JANEWAY: Doctor, I want you to go to the bridge right now and alert Commander Tuvok. 
(There are two members of the Heirarchy here, and they still remind me of Vogons. Thanks, Douglas Adams.)
ZET: Put her behind the forcefield. 
(His companion obeys.)
ZET: We have another assignment for you. I've been going over the schematics of your vessel, and I'm intrigued by this bio-neural circuitry. I want you to bring us a series of these gel packs.
EMH [on monitor]: The gel packs are integrated into the ship's systems. I can't just remove them without someone noticing. 
ZET: You've proven yourself to be very resourceful, Doctor. You'll find a way. Remember, we're monitoring your perceptual subroutines. We can see and hear everything. 
[Doctor's office]
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Chakotay. 
ZET [on monitor]: You know what will happen to her if you alert your crew. 
EMH: (croaky voice) Go ahead. 
[Delta Flyer]
(In the shuttlebay.)
TUVOK: Are you all right, Commander? 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Just a scratchy throat. The Doctor's treating me now. 
[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: Could you come to the Shuttlebay when you're finished? 
[Sickbay]
EMH: I'll be right there. Chakotay out. Computer, access the holodeck database and locate Commander Chakotay's holographic template. Download the physical parameters into my programme. 
(He morphs himself into Chakotay and puts the comm. badge on.) 
[Delta Flyer]
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me? 
TUVOK: I've completed the diagnostic as you requested. The Flyer's comm. system is functioning normally. 
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You find that unusual? 
TUVOK: The Captain did report that it was damaged 
[Overlooker's ship]
TUVOK [OC]: During the attack by the R'Kaal. 
EMH-CHAKOTAY [OC]: I'll have a talk with her. Did you find anything else out of the ordinary? 
TUVOK [OC]: No. 
ZET: Get out of there before you arouse suspicion. 
[Delta Flyer]
EMH-CHAKOTAY: I'll be on the bridge if you need me. 
[Overlooker's ship]
NAR: You're doing a wonderful job, Doctor. I'm just giving him a little encouragement. 
ZET: That's why I'm in command. 
NAR: If all goes well, we should have the warp core in less than six hours. He's making excellent progress. 
JANEWAY: That's exactly what he wants you to believe. 
ZET: What do you mean?
JANEWAY: Did you really think you could outsmart a hologram? 
NAR: Everything appears to be normal. 
JANEWAY: How do you know you're not looking at a holographic projection? The Doctor isn't just a physician. His Emergency Command subroutines contain thousands of tactical scenarios. I wouldn't be surprised if Voyager was already on its way here. You do have an option. Leave me behind in an escape pod and I'll forget any of this ever happened. 
NAR: Maybe we should let her go. 
ZET: Are you delusional? It took months to plan this. We've already found a buyer for the warp core. Now you want to abandon everything? 
NAR: It's better than being sent to a rehabilitation centre. 
ZET: We made our choice when we stole this vessel. I am not going back to the Hierarchy, and neither are you. She's just trying to trick you. A month from now, we'll be soaking in the mud baths of Eblar Prime. Trust me. 
[Janeway's quarters]
EMH: (as Janeway) Janeway to Torres. 
TORRES [OC]: Torres here. 
EMH:
(as Janeway)
I'm having a little trouble with my replicator again. Can you take a look at it? 
[Engineering]
TORRES: I'm still working on those modifications you asked for. I'll send somebody else. 
[Janeway's quarters]
EMH: 
(as Janeway)
I'd consider it a personal favour if you'd do it yourself, Lieutenant. 
TORRES [OC]: I'll be there in five minutes. 
EMH: 
(as Janeway)
Thank you. Janeway out. (own voice) Computer, access Lieutenant Torres' holographic template and download the physical parameters into my programme. 
(He makes the changes then realises something is missing when he looks in the mirror.)
EMH-TORRES: Computer, access medical file Torres Three and update her holographic template. 
(The baby bump appears. S/he waits until Torres has left Engineering.) 
[Engineering];
VORIK: Did you forget something, Lieutenant? 
EMH-TORRES: I did, actually. Where do we keep the spare gel packs? 
VORIK: Locker gamma five. 
EMH-TORRES: Of course. Gamma five. 
VORIK: On the upper level. 
EMH-TORRES: I know where it is, Ensign.
(S/he gets on the lift.) 
[Engineering upper level]
(Where Paris is attempting the picnic again as s/he gets the gel packs.)
PARIS: You left me no choice. 
EMH-TORRES: Lieutenant. 
PARIS: Oh? Are we calling each other by our rank now? 
EMH-TORRES: Er, you startled me. 
PARIS: Oh, sorry. Well, I thought since you didn't have time for lunch under the stars, maybe you'd settle for the glow of the warp core.
EMH-TORRES: How thoughtful, but I'm not hungry.
PARIS: Well, I'm sure the baby is famished. 
(He unveils a tray of Southern Fried Chicken.)
EMH-TORRES: A pregnant woman shouldn't eat this kind of food. Do you want to give me an arterial occlusion? 
PARIS: One drumstick isn't going to kill you. Besides, I won't tell the Doctor if you won't. 
EMH-TORRES: You know, this all looks so delicious. Why don't we save it for a romantic dinner this evening?
PARIS: All right, nineteen hours. But if you're not there, I'm sending security after you.
EMH-TORRES: I'll be there. Sweetheart. 
PARIS: Sweetheart? Well, aren't you getting affectionate in your third trimester. 
(Paris kisses her/him.) 
PARIS: I'll see you later. 
(Paris leaves. EMH-Torres closes the case containing the gel-packs, then the comm badge on his wrist activates.) 
KIM [OC]: Kim to Chakotay. Can you come to Astrometrics? 
EMH-TORRES: (Chakotay's voice) Harry, I'll be right there. Chakotay out. 
[Astrometrics lab]
(The image of the Supreme Archon Loth is on the screen.)
KIM: The transmission was encoded with a false subspace signature.
SEVEN: The signal didn't originate on another vessel. It came from inside Voyager. 
KIM: We traced it to holodeck two. 
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Do you know who sent it?
KIM: I'm on my way to check the access logs. 
EMH-CHAKOTAY: I'll go with you. 
[Holodeck]
KIM: Whoever sent this transmission knew how to cover his tracks. The holodeck logs have been erased.
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Doesn't look like we'll get any answers here.
KIM: I might be able to find some residual phototonic displacement. There we go. I think I can clarify the image with a recursive algorithm. 
(Loth solidifies.)
KIM: Our alien's a hologram. The question is, who programmed him?
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Good work, Ensign. I'll take it from here. 
KIM: Wait a minute. I'm picking up two holographic signatures. It looks like a second image was superimposed over an existing template. I'll see if I can isolate the first image. 
(The EMH steps behind Kim and takes a hypo from his boot. The holographic image changes to the EMH, so EMH-Chakotay uses the hypo on Kim. He then stores Kim in the morgue and adds his comm. badge to the growing collection in his office. The EMH leans back and begins a playback of the Blue Danube Waltz before tapping some controls.) 
[Overlooker's ship]
(All this is visible on the screen.)
ZET: Doctor, what are you doing? 
EMH [OC]: If you don't mind 
[Doctor's office]
EMH: I've had a stressful day. 
(Tuvok enters Sickbay. The EMH stops the music.) 
[Overlooker's ship]
EMH [OC]: I'm extremely busy, Commander.
TUVOK [on monitor]: This will only take a moment. I've been reviewing the communication logs. There's a discrepancy I was hoping you could explain. 
[Doctor's office]
TUVOK: At the precise moment the Flyer transmitted a deflector pulse, you apparently accessed Voyager's holographic database. 
EMH: I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.;
[Sickbay]
TUVOK: Your access code was used to download the captain's physical parameters. 
EMH: Exactly what are you insinuating, Commander? 
TUVOK: Perhaps we should have a word with the captain. 
EMH: Fine. (The EMH attempts to inject Tuvok, but he is stopped. Tuvok draws his phaser.)
TUVOK: Computer, deactivate the EMH. 
COMPUTER: EMH protocols are offline. 
TUVOK: Security to Sickbay. Remain where you are. 
EMH: You haven't forgotten I'm a hologram, have you? 
(Tuvok;
fires his phaser at a wall emitter. The EMH flickers.)
TUVOK:  If necessary, I'll disable all of your holo-emitters. 
(The EMH 
leaps through the window into his office.)
[Doctor's office]
EMH: Computer, transfer the EMH to the mobile emitter. 
(He runs out through the Medical lab.)
TUVOK: All hands, Red Alert. Security teams, apprehend the Doctor. 
[Outside Holodeck]
(The EMH runs inside and the doors close.)
TUVOK: Computer, open the holodeck doors. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Access to the holodeck has been restricted. 
TUVOK: Security override, Tuvok sigma four. 
[Holodeck]
(Dozens of EMH's turn to face Tuvok.) 
TUVOK: Computer, end programme.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Holodeck controls are offline. 
TUVOK: Tuvok to Engineering. Shut down power 
[Engineering]
TUVOK [OC]: To Holodeck two. 
TORRES: It looks like the Doctor's rerouted the power relays. It'll take a minute to bypass them. 
[Holodeck]
TUVOK: Doctor, I've reconfigured my phaser to disrupt your holo-matrix. Surrender yourself now. 
(The EMH is crawling along a Jefferies tube.;All the EMH's in the holodeck vanish.) 
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK [OC]: Can you locate the Doctor on the internal sensors? 
PARIS: I'm not reading him. He must've masked his signature somehow. 
TUVOK [OC]: Try scanning for the polydeutonic alloy in his emitter. Shut down all 
[Holodeck]
TUVOK: Turbolifts and transporters. 
PARIS [OC]: Acknowledged. 
[Engineering]
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Get your people out of here. The core's about to breach. 
TORRES: I'm not detecting an overload. 
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You're getting false readings. The Doctor's reprogrammed your sensors. 
TORRES: All right, everybody out. Now! Move it! 
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You too, B'Elanna.
TORRES: I might be able to stabilise the containment field. 
EMH-CHAKOTAY: You're not putting your baby in danger. Go! 
TORRES: You'd better be right behind me. 
PARIS: Paris to Torres. I'm picking up the Doctor's emitter in your section. 
TORRES: Where? 
PARIS: Right next to the warp core. 
(EMH-Chakotay traps Torres behind a forcefield.) 
EMH-CHAKOTAY: Computer, activate Emergency Command Hologram.
COMPUTER: All command codes have been transferred to the ECH. 
EMH: Prepare to eject the warp core. Authorization ECH omega four two. 
TORRES: Doctor, don't do this. 
COMPUTER: Warp ejection system enabled. 
EMH: Computer, eject the core. 
(The warp core falls out of Voyager.)
EMH: Computer, lock on to my mobile emitter and transport me to the Delta Flyer.
COMPUTER: Transporters are offline. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Tuvok, we just lost main power 
[Corridor]
PARIS [OC]: And internal sensors are down. 
TUVOK: The Doctor has entered Jefferies tube one one alpha. Send a security team to the shuttlebay. 
(Torres gets out of a Jefferies tube and comes running around the corner.) 
TUVOK: Lieutenant? 
EMH-TORRES: I think the Doctor's heading for the escape pods. 
(Tuvok closes his tricorder and draws his phaser.)
EMH-TORRES: You wouldn't shoot a pregnant woman, would you? 
TUVOK: Come with me, Doctor. 
(EMH-Torres runs up the wall, along ;the ceiling over Tuvok, then stuns him.) 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Tuvok, someone's launching the Flyer. 
[Corridor]
PARIS [OC]: Tuvok! 
(In space, the EMH grabs the warp core with the Delta Flyer's tractor beam.) 
[Overlooker's ship]
(Nar is trying to repair something, and gets an electric shock. He drops his tool.)
NAR: Ow!; 
JANEWAY: You might try disconnecting the phase discriminator. (He removes the top of the object to reveal a small flashing light.)
NAR: Ha! I've rebuilt dozens of these units, but I've never seen this configuration before. Do you know how I can stabilise the ion flow? 
(Janeway gestures to him to bring it closer.)
JANEWAY: That looks like the charge inverter. 
(He presses the indicated button, and the object lights up properly.)
NAR: Thank you. 
JANEWAY: You're welcome. Your ship must need a lot of replacement parts. 
NAR: Oh, those aren't for this ship. I've been collecting and repairing spare components for years. This is from an old impulse drive. Would you believe I found it sitting in a waste depository? I'll be able to find a buyer now that it's working. 
JANEWAY: These parts could be worth a small fortune. 
NAR: That's exactly what I think. I'm going to use my quarter of the profits to establish an outpost specialising in obsolete engine components. I'm certain there's a demand for them. 
JANEWAY: My Chief Engineer is always looking for spare parts. She might be interested in acquiring your entire inventory. 
ZET: Captain. Tut, tut, tut. You're not trying to take advantage of my subordinate, are you? No one's ever going to buy this junk. It's almost as useless as you. There's a ship approaching. 
[Delta Flyer]
EMH: This is the Delta Flyer. I've got the warp core 
[Overlooker's ship]
EMH [OC]: But you're not getting it until you release the captain. 
(Zet fires at the Flyer.) 
[Delta Flyer]
EMH: Are you insane? You almost destabilised the core. Both of our ships would've been destroyed! 
[Overlooker's ship]
ZET: This isn't a negotiation. Release your tractor beam, now. 
[Delta Flyer]
EMH: All right.
(The tractor beam is turned off, and the warp core vanishes.)
NAR: It's in the cargo hold. 
ZET: Lower your shields and we'll beam your captain to you. 
[Delta Flyer]
EMH: Ready. 
[Overlooker's ship]
(Instead, the EMH is beamed into the cell with Janeway.)
EMH: We had an agreement!
ZET: To spare your captain. As you can see, she's still alive. 
JANEWAY: Let the Doctor go. I'm the more valuable hostage.
ZET: Actually, you're not. We'll leave you in the Vinry system. The inhabitants are mostly harmless. (Dpuglas Adams again!) The Doctor will be working for us now. 
EMH: I'll do no such thing. 
ZET: I'm sure you'll feel differently after I make a few adjustments to your programme. 
NAR: I had no idea he was going to do this. I'm sorry.
JANEWAY: I hope you realise you've stranded Voyager in the Delta Quadrant. 
EMH: What did you expect me to do, let them kill you? 
JANEWAY: I expected you to follow my orders. 
EMH: You might as well have been ordering me to put a phaser to your head. Voyager can survive without a warp core, but not without a captain. 
JANEWAY: Now it doesn't have either. 
Chief Tactical Officer's log, stardate 54890.7. With internal sensors offline, I've had to order a section by section search for our missing crew members. Until main power is restored, Voyager remains immobilised and defenceless. 
[Morgue]
(The search finally reaches the morgue, where Kim and Chakotay are in the stasis chambers.)
PARIS: They're just unconscious. Paris to Tuvok. I found them. 
[Corridor]
TUVOK: It is logical to assume the Captain never returned from the away mission. 
CHAKOTAY: Do you have any idea where the Flyer is? 
TUVOK: The Doctor masked his ion trail. 
TORRES [OC]: Engineering to Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: We're ready to restart the impulse reactors. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Acknowledged. 
(The lights come on and the Blue Danube waltz begins to play, slightly wrong.) 
[Corridor]
TUVOK: It's playing on every comm. channel on the ship. 
CHAKOTAY: Computer, pause music.
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. 
CHAKOTAY: Didn't the Doctor play this at his recital last month? 
TUVOK: Yes. And as I recall, he performed the piece flawlessly. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe the recording was damaged by the power loss. 
TUVOK: Or perhaps the Doctor altered the music deliberately. 
CHAKOTAY: Why would he do that? 
[Briefing room]
SEVEN: I performed a Fourier analysis on the recording. The harmonics have been modified. 
(Frequency analysis 71)
KIM: It could be a comm. frequency. 
SEVEN: Unlikely. There's no carrier wave. 
PARIS: I could be wrong but, it looks like a warp signature. 
KIM: The power utilisation curve would be about right. 
CHAKOTAY: Try scanning for it. 
(Long range scan 328)
SEVEN: I'm detecting a matching signature. Distance, six point seven light years. 
TUVOK: We can't follow them at impulse. 
CHAKOTAY: You and Tom take a shuttle. 
[Overlooker's ship]
(Janeway taps at the mobile emitter.)
EMH: What are you doing?
JANEWAY: If I can amplify your matrix, I might be able to disrupt the forcefield. 
EMH: I'm sorry I put us in this position, Captain. 
JANEWAY: You said you wanted us to spend more time together. 
EMH: This isn't what I had in mind. Maybe, if we get back to the ship, we could try socialising a little more. 
JANEWAY: This really isn't the place to be talking about this. Besides, I don't do a lot of socialising. 
EMH: You have meals with Commander Chakotay, and you play Velocity with Seven. 
JANEWAY: We're going to have to discuss this later. 
(Nar lowers the forcefield.)
NAR: I need to upload your first assignment. 
(The EMH steps out and Nar beams the programme into the mobile emitter.)
EMH: You want me to infiltrate the Hierarchy's surveillance complex? 
ZET: The data stored there is worth a hundred warp cores. 
EMH: How do you expect me to get past the security perimeter? 
ZET: I'm glad you asked.
(Nar turns the EMH into an Overlooker.)
EMH-OVERLOOKER: I trust this won't be permanent. 
NAR: I've given you the rank of a Class One Overseer. You'll be able to walk into Central Command without anyone noticing. I've also uploaded several other holographic templates you might find useful. 
(The EMH flickers.) 
JANEWAY: What's wrong? 
NAR: I'm not certain. 
ZET: The compression algorithms are breaking down. 
NAR: I told you his programme couldn't handle that much data. 
(The EMH's appearance flickers and changes rapidly.)
EMH-TORRES-OVERLOOKER: What have you done to me? 
[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: I'm detecting a human lifesign aboard. And a holographic signature. 
TUVOK: The vessel's weapons are polaron-based, and they have auto-regenerative shielding.
PARIS: We still have the element of surprise. 
[Overlooker's ship]
JANEWAY: If you don't get him back to Voyager his matrix will be permanently damaged. 
EMH-ALIEN: Please do something. 
NAR: He won't be any use to us if he decompiles. 
(The shuttlecraft attacks as Paris beams into the Flyer. He starts to power it up.) 
NAR: Someone's boarded the Delta Flyer. They're moving away. 
ZET: Fire at both vessels. 
[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: Now, Mister Paris. 
(Both ships attack Zet's) 
[Overlooker's ship]
(The EMH-Alien is with Janeway behind the forcefield.)
NAR: The shield generator isn't going to last. If we give them what they want, maybe they'll leave. 
ZET: Prepare to jettison their warp core.
NAR: What are you doing? 
ZET: Arming a torpedo. If we detonate their core the blast wave should give us enough time to escape. 
NAR: That would kill them. 
(A pair of hits from Starfleet weapons make the forcefield drop. Janeway dashes for a control panel.) 
EMH-ALIEN: Captain, get down! 
(She ducks, and Zar's phaser fire goes over her head. The EMH-Alien disarms him.) ; 
[Shuttlecraft]
(The warp core materialises in space.) 
TUVOK: Lieutenant, lock a tractor beam onto the core and get it back to Voyager. 
PARIS [OC]: Acknowledged. 
[Overlooker's ship]
(A console explodes and Janeway is knocked out. The EMH returns to his usual matrix and attacks Zet.) 
ZET: Nar, get this hologram off me. 
(Nar knocks Zet out with the mended piece of impulse drive.) 
NAR: Guess this wasn't so useless after all.
(He helps Janeway up.) 
NAR: Are you still interested in acquiring my inventory? 
[Holodeck]
(The shuttlecraft returns to Voyager. Tuvok, the glitching EMH and Janeway are beamed into the holodeck.)
TORRES: Computer, transfer the EMH back into the holodeck buffer. 
JANEWAY: Can you stabilise his matrix?
SEVEN: Not until we purge the excess subroutines. 
TORRES: There's more than a thousand teraquads of new data in here. 
PARIS: How is he?
JANEWAY: We're not sure yet. 
EMH: Captain, if I don't survive, I need you to do something for me. 
JANEWAY: You're going to be all right. 
EMH: If I'm not, when you reach Earth I want you to donate my emitter to the Daystrom Institute. They may be able to replicate it someday so that other holograms can know the freedom I've enjoyed. I've had something on my conscience for a long time. After I was first activated, I kept a record of what I considered to be your most questionable command decisions. It's in my personal database. I hope you'll delete the file without reading it. Mister Tuvok, I violated the most sacred trust between a physician and his patient. I told Mister Neelix about the cutaneous eruption you developed on your. That was indiscreet. I hope you can forgive me. Ensign, at your recital last month, I told Lieutenant Torres that your saxophone playing reminded me of a wounded targ. I should've put it more delicately. I'm sorry. Seven. 
SEVEN: You should remain still. 
EMH: You have no idea how difficult it's been, hiding my true feelings all these years, averting my eyes during your regular maintenance exams. 
(He goes down on his knees in front of her.) 
EMH: I know you could never have the same feelings for me but I want you to know the truth. I love you, Seven. 
SEVEN: Your cognitive algorithms are malfunctioning. 
EMH: Goodbye, my friends. Speak well of me. 
(The EMH disappears.) 
JANEWAY: Is he 
TORRES: No, I've got him. 
(The EMH reappears.)
EMH: What happened?
TORRES: I deleted the extraneous subroutines. 
EMH: I'm not going to decompile? 
JANEWAY: You'll probably outlive us all. 
(Janeway hands him the mobile emitter.)
PARIS: Doc, anything else you'd like to confess? 
Captain's log, stardate 54912.4. Lieutenant Torres has restored our warp drive in less than a week. The Doctor's dignity, however, might take a little longer. He hasn't left Sickbay once since he returned to the ship. 
[Medical lab]
EMH: Captain, do you, do you need medical attention? 
JANEWAY: No. You've been keeping to yourself lately. Your friends are worried about you. 
EMH: After my deathbed confession, I wasn't sure I had any friends left. I overstepped my bounds in documenting your command decisions. It happened a long time ago, before I considered myself to be a part of your crew. 
JANEWAY: Oh, I'm not here to make you grovel. I'm here to punish you for your insubordinate behaviour. 
EMH: I understand.
JANEWAY: You're hereby denied the use of your mobile emitter for six days. Since you haven't left Sickbay for a week, we'll call it time served. 
(She puts the emitter on his sleeve.)
EMH: I appreciate the gesture, Captain, but I've got a lot of work to catch up on. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry to hear that. I was hoping you might be free for a cup of coffee on the holodeck. I know a little sidewalk caf� in Buenos Aires. You said you wanted us to socialise more. 
EMH: I suppose Mister Paris can finish this. 
JANEWAY: Now, when you're on the holodeck with the captain, there are two rules you have to follow. 
EMH: I understand. 
JANEWAY: First, leave your rank at the door. 
EMH: Not a problem. The second? 
JANEWAY: No opera. 

