Episode Number: 421
The Voyager Transcripts - Demon
Demon
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 6 May 1998
[Bridge]
(Lights are going out all over the ship. Note to those who are interested - Roxann is back after being missing in Living Witness, because she was giving birth to her first daughter.)
KIM: The ship is grey, Captain. We've cut power to decks four through nine. Replicators, holodecks and all other nonessentials are offline. Remaining systems are operating at twenty percent capacity. 
JANEWAY: Tom, how long can you keep us flying? 
PARIS: With the deuterium supply this low? Even at one quarter impulse we'll be out of gas inside a week. 
JANEWAY: Everyone redouble your efforts. Keep your eyes open for new sources of deuterium. Tuvok, Chakotay, I want recommendations for further methods of conservation. Harry, you and I will give them a hand in geophysics. See if we can't synthesise a substitute fuel. In the meantime, we stay in grey mode. If anybody's got any other ideas, I'm listening. 
PARIS: We could set up a bicycle in the mess hall, attach a generator, pedal home. 
JANEWAY: Now why didn't I think of that? 
PARIS: And I volunteer Harry to take the first shift. 
[Corridor]
TUVOK: Living space will be extremely limited. Take only those personal items which are absolutely essential. 
(Tuvok bumps into Neelix and his collection of duffel bags. He picks up a book which has fallen out.)
NEELIX: Hello, there. 
TUVOK: What, may I ask, is this? 
NEELIX: That, Mister Vulcan, is the Selected Works of Jirex. 
TUVOK: Only essential items, Mister Neelix. 
NEELIX: Oh, Jirex is essential. He's the greatest writer in the Talaxian canon. I never go to sleep without reading at least one of his parables. 
TUVOK: A habit you will have to break until we're able to restore power to crew quarters. 
NEELIX: I suppose I can try. 
TUVOK: And these? 
(Bolsters and pillows.)
NEELIX: I get terrible neck pains without them. 
TUVOK: I suggest you ask the Doctor to prescribe an anti-inflammatory. 
NEELIX: Fine. I don't mind roughing it. 
TUVOK: Mister Neelix. The blankets. 
NEELIX: No, no, that's where I draw the line. My mother knitted these herself. I've slept with them since I was a child. 
TUVOK: You'll have to make do with standard issue bedding. 
NEELIX: Those Starfleet blankets give me a rash. 
TUVOK: I suggest you ask the Doctor 
NEELIX: For some anti-itch cream. I might as well sleep in Sickbay. Thank you, Mister Vulcan. You've just given me an idea. 
(Neelix leaves Tuvok holding his gear.)
[Astrometrics lab]
CHAKOTAY: What's going on here? 
SEVEN: I'm working. 
CHAKOTAY: You were ordered to shut down Astrometrics an hour ago. We can't afford the power. Seven, it's inefficient. 
SEVEN: Efficiency is relative, Commander. If I shut down Astrometrics, I won't be able to scan for new fuel sources. 
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your efforts, but we'll have to use conventional scanners until 
(Beep!)
SEVEN: Conventional scanners would not have found this. 
CHAKOTAY: What? 
SEVEN: Highly concentrated deuterium. 
CHAKOTAY: Where? 
SEVEN: Computer, display source. A planetoid point four light-years from our present position. There are dense pockets of deuterium just beneath the surface. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so, but that's a Demon class planet. 
SEVEN: Demon class? 
CHAKOTAY: That's what Starfleet calls it. Also known as Class Y. It's got a toxic atmosphere filled with thermionic radiation. Surface temperatures are in excess of five hundred Kelvins. Just entering a standard orbit would be suicide. 
SEVEN: Our situation is desperate. 
CHAKOTAY: True. 
SEVEN: When faced with desperate circumstances, we must adapt. 
Captain's log, supplemental. I've ordered adaptations to our shields to repel the thermionic discharges. Hoping that the benefits will outweigh the risks, we're now trying to beam deuterium from beneath the planet's surface. 
[Transporter room]
SEVEN: Narrow the annular confinement beam to point four seven terahertz. Ready here, Captain. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Stand by. Harry, shunt whatever additional power you can to the containment field. I don't want any of those atmospheric gasses seeping in. 
KIM: Aye, Captain. 
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: A thermionic discharge has struck the forward shields. They're holding. 
JANEWAY: Let's get this over with before you tell me otherwise. Seven, do it. 
[Transporter room]
SEVEN: Energise. Transport in progress.
(As the container fills, the transporter console explodes.) 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields are weakening. 
KIM: I'm reading an overload in the pattern buffers. 
JANEWAY: Abort transport. 
[Transporter room]
SEVEN: Controls not responding. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Get out of there now. 
[Corridor]
(The container explodes. Seven gets the transporter operator out just in time.)
SEVEN: Computer, seal off the transporter room and erect a level ten containment field. 
COMPUTER: Containment field established. 
[Briefing room]
CHAKOTAY: The good news is Nozawa and Seven of Nine have both been treated and released from Sickbay, and the planetary gases have been expelled from the transporter room. 
JANEWAY: And the bad news? 
CHAKOTAY: The transporters are offline. It'll take days before they're back again. 
JANEWAY: Great. We use valuable energy on a course change and all we get for our trouble is another downed system. Can we send a probe to collect the deuterium?
TUVOK: It would incinerate within seconds of entering the upper atmosphere. 
JANEWAY: Then I don't see any other options. Tom, put us back on our original course, one quarter impulse. 
KIM: Captain, maybe I can help. 
PARIS: Harry, the bicycle thing was just a joke. 
KIM: I've been thinking. With Tuvok's shield modifications and a few tweaks to an environmental suit, I could take a shuttle to the surface and mine the deuterium from there. 
TUVOK: Need I remind you, Ensign, that there is no environment less hospitable to humanoid life than a Class Y. 
KIM: Actually, Tuvok, no, you needn't remind me. What's the alternative? Resume course? Creep along at quarter impulse hoping we find fuel before we end up dead in the water? We've got deuterium within arm's reach. We can't let the opportunity slip away without at least trying. 
CHAKOTAY: He's got a point. 
JANEWAY: You wouldn't be able to communicate with us if you got in trouble, and until we get transporters back we couldn't beam you out. 
TUVOK: Even with modifications, it wouldn't be long before your suit began to corrode. Exposure to that atmosphere could kill you within minutes. 
KIM: I know the risks. 
JANEWAY: Even if I agreed, I'd never let you go alone. 
KIM: Of course not. That's why I'm volunteering my good buddy Tom here to go with me. 
[Corridor]
PARIS: You were pretty forceful in there. 
KIM: So? 
PARIS: So? I don't think I've ever seen you that assertive in a staff meeting before. You must be bucking for a promotion. 
KIM: I had an idea and I spoke up, that's all. 
PARIS: Oh, no, no, no. It was more than that. You put Tuvok in his place right in front of everybody. 
KIM: He was stating the obvious again. Talking down to me like I didn't know anything about Demon Class planets. 
PARIS: I am not criticising you. Believe me, nobody enjoys seeing the Vulcan Master put down a peg more than I do. I was just surprised, that's all. 
KIM: Why? 
PARIS: It didn't seem like you. 
KIM: Good. 
[Turbolift]
KIM: Cargo bay two. 
PARIS: You trying to change your squeaky clean image or something? 
KIM: Not exactly. 
PARIS: What, then. 
KIM: How do I explain this? When I first came on board Voyager I was pretty green, right? 
PARIS: A deep, almost fluorescent green, if I remember correctly. 
KIM: I was young, inexperienced, and I acted like it. Nervous about giving my opinion, hesitant to make suggestions, so I usually just kept my mouth shut. And I behaved that way for so long it became a habit. But, in the last four years, a lot has happened. I've fought the Borg, been transformed into an alien, helped defeat the Hirogen. Hell, I've even come back from the dead. 
PARIS: It's been a wild ride. 
KIM: I woke up the other morning and it suddenly hit me. I've got a lot of experience now, so why should I be afraid to take the initiative or voice my ideas? 
PARIS: Good for you, Harry. 
[Corridor]
PARIS: But do me a favour. The next time you try to assert yourself, leave me out of it. I hate hot weather. 
KIM: Don't worry. We can cut some holes in the environmental suits, get some ventilation going. 
PARIS: Harry, while you're busy improving yourself, you might try working on your sense of humour. 
KIM: My sense of humour? What about that stupid gag about the bicycle? 
PARIS: Oh, ho, ho. That was funny. 
KIM: No, that was not funny. 
[Shuttlecraft]
PARIS: I can't thank you enough for getting me in on this mission, Harry. 
KIM: Don't mention it. 
PARIS: Remind me to volunteer you to help the next time I have to clean the warp plasma manifolds. 
KIM: Really, Tom, you don't owe me anything. 
PARIS: Oh, but I do. We've lost attitude control. 
KIM: Time to show off your piloting skills. Think you can handle it? 
PARIS: Watch me. 
KIM: Oh, I'll be watching you, all right. Switching to manual control. 
PARIS: Just sit back, relax, and enjoy the ride. 
KIM: We're entering the lower atmosphere. Approaching the landing coordinates. 
PARIS: All right. I'm going to set us down. On my mark.;
(Big thump. They bounce in their seats.) 
PARIS: Mark.
KIM: You did that on purpose, didn't you. 
[Planet surface]
PARIS: It's almost five hundred degrees Kelvin. 
KIM: Don't worry. The suits can handle it. 
PARIS: If not, we'll be human barbecue. 
KIM: I'm picking up traces of deuterium. Fifty metres that way. Let's move. 
PARIS: No sweat. 
KIM: Lame. 
[Cavern]
(They find a pool of what looks like mercury, which would still be liquid even at these temperatures.) 
KIM: It's coming from inside here. 
PARIS: What is it? 
KIM: Some kind of metallic compound. Highly viscous, And if these readings are right, its temperature is only twelve degrees? 
PARIS: In this environment? 
KIM: Whatever this stuff is it's packed with liquefied deuterium. 
PARIS: Jackpot! 
KIM: There's another pool twenty metres that way. Why don't you go check it out while I collect a few samples here. 
PARIS: Right. I don't know, Harry. A couple of lounge chairs, a big beach umbrella, maybe some dermalplast to counteract the chemical burns and I think we've found ourselves a new vacation spot. Oh, come on. That was a little funny. Let me hear you do better. Harry. Harry? 
(Paris returns to the first pool. There are bubbles coming from it.)
PARIS: Oh, my god. 
(Paris reaches in and pulls Kim out.)
PARIS: I know it's hot out, Harry, but you picked a lousy time to go for a swim. 
KIM: I don't know what happened. I leaned over to collect a sample and it was like I was pulled in. 
COMPUTER: Warning, Ensign Kim. An environmental seal has been compromised. Oxygen depletion in thirty seconds. 
PARIS: Hang in there, buddy, and I'll get you back to the shuttle. Have you put on weight? 
KIM: You're just out of shape. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in fifteen seconds. 
PARIS: I'll make you a deal. You hold your breath till we get back to the shuttle and I promise I'll start exercising every day. 
KIM: Maybe you should start with the bicycle. 
PARIS: I thought I told you to hold your breath. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in five seconds. 
PARIS: Hang in there, Harry. We'll make it. 
COMPUTER: Warning, Lieutenant Paris. An environmental seal has been compromised. Oxygen depletion in thirty seconds. 
(Kim collapses.)
PARIS: You've got to be kidding me. We're in the same boat now, buddy, but I'll get us out of this. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in fifteen seconds. 
PARIS: You're right. I definitely need to get back in shape. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen depletion in five seconds.
(The beep becomes a long tone. They are both unconscious. Or worse.) 
[Doctor's office]
EMH: Out of the question. 
NEELIX: Be reasonable, Doctor. 
EMH: Take it up with Commander Chakotay. He's on his way here right now. 
NEELIX: But it's only for a couple of days. Just until we get power back in the crew quarters. 
EMH: I suggest you set up camp in the mess hall. 
NEELIX: The mess hall is full. Where are we supposed to sleep? 
EMH: Anywhere but here. This is a sickbay, not a dormitory. 
NEELIX: But you have four empty beds. 
EMH: Biobeds, reserved for patients. 
NEELIX: You don't have any patients. 
EMH: I may have one in a moment if you and your fellow squatters don't go elsewhere. 
(Chakotay enters.)
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me, Doctor? 
EMH: Oh, it's about time. Mister Neelix is attempting to turn my sickbay into a flophouse. 
CHAKOTAY: We are short on beds right now. We've got to adapt. 
NEELIX: Ah ha! 
EMH: But, what if there's a medical emergency? 
CHAKOTAY: Then Neelix and the others will get out of the way. 
NEELIX: Absolutely. 
EMH: But, this isn't just sickbay, it's my residence. 
NEELIX: And we promise to be the most perfect houseguests. 
CHAKOTAY: What more can you ask for. 
EMH: But, I have a routine. I'm a night owl. What if one of them should snore while I'm listening to Puccini? 
CHAKOTAY: Well, if you feel that strongly about it, Doc, I suppose we'll have to consider other options. 
EMH: Thank you, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: For example, we could shut down your programme until you're needed. The Captain asked me to look for ways to conserve power, and it would spare you from having to listen to them snore. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Commander Chakotay to the bridge. 
CHAKOTAY: On my way. 
EMH: But
(Chakotay leaves.)
EMH: Make yourselves at home. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Try scanning for infrared signatures. 
TUVOK: There's too much interference. 
CHAKOTAY: What's up? 
JANEWAY: Tom and Harry still aren't back. 
CHAKOTAY: You want me to take another shuttle down and look for them? 
JANEWAY: And risk losing you, too? Either we keep waiting until we run out of deuterium and we get trapped in orbit, or
CHAKOTAY: Or? 
JANEWAY: We land the ship. 
TUVOK: As you know, Captain, the landing procedure requires a significant output of energy. With shield strength as low as it is, we can't even be certain the ship will survive the descent. 
JANEWAY: What's the alternative? We're up here, the deuterium's down there, and we're stuck without it. We've come this far. Janeway to engineering. Vent all plasma from the nacelles. Transfer any available power to atmospheric thrusters and stand by to commence landing sequence. 
TORRES [OC]: Acknowledged, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, take the conn. 
CHAKOTAY: Tom's going to be sorry he missed this. 
JANEWAY: Code blue. 
TUVOK: Commander Tuvok to all hands. Go to Blue alert and report to Code Blue stations. 
CHAKOTAY: Atmospheric controls at standby. Landing struts online. Inertial dampers at maximum. 
TUVOK: All operative decks report condition blue. 
JANEWAY: Let us down easy, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: We're on a declining glide trajectory. Altitude one hundred and fifty kilometres. 
(Whumph!)
TUVOK: A thermionic discharge. Shields down to eighty one percent. Shields at forty three percent. 
JANEWAY: Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: I think we're through the worst of it. Almost. 
TUVOK: Shields at twenty two percent and falling. 
JANEWAY: Can you shore them up? 
TUVOK: Negative. There's no more available power. 
CHAKOTAY: Engaging landing struts. Brace for impact! 
(Voyager lands with a bump.)
JANEWAY: Status? 
TUVOK: I could give you a litany of damaged systems, Captain, but suffice it to say, now that we're down, we won't go up again soon. 
JANEWAY: Start organising repair crews. That was very good, Commander. Take an away team and find Harry and Tom. 
[Corridor]
TORRES: Chakotay, you're going out to look for them, aren't you? 
CHAKOTAY: That's right. 
TORRES: Take me with you. 
CHAKOTAY: I can't do that, B'Elanna. You're needed here to complete repairs. 
TORRES: I've already handed out assignments. Vorik's on top of it. I want to help you find them. 
CHAKOTAY: Look, I know you're concerned about Tom and Harry. We all are. I'll have them back safe and sound in no time. 
TORRES: Don't patronise me. We both know how dangerous that environment is. They could be in serious trouble. 
CHAKOTAY: You're right. I don't know what we're going to find. That's why I need cool heads. 
TORRES: You think I can't control myself? 
CHAKOTAY: I think you're a little too close to this. 
TORRES: You're damn right I am. If someone you loved was missing on this planet you would be the first one out that door, and you know it. 
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna, the clock is ticking. Go back to Engineering, do your job and let me do mine. 
TORRES: Do me a favour. 
CHAKOTAY: What? 
TORRES: Take Seven of Nine with you. 
CHAKOTAY: You're recommending her? 
TORRES: You said you needed cool heads, didn't you? Nobody's head is cooler than hers. 
CHAKOTAY: All right. 
TORRES: And bring them back safe. 
CHAKOTAY: I will. 
[Sickbay]
(The EMH is humming opera and making plenty of noise as he does his chores. As he starts to break into song -)
NEELIX: Excuse me, Doctor. 
EMH: Yes, Mister Neelix? 
NEELIX: We'd like to sleep now, if you don't mind. 
EMH: Not at all. Make yourselves comfortable. 
NEELIX: But you seem busy. 
EMH: Oh, don't mind me. Just going about my routine. Sleep away. 
(The EMH activates the arms to trap Neelix on the surgical bay biobed, then lowers them again.)
NEELIX: What about the lights? 
EMH: What about them? 
NEELIX: Could we turn them off? 
EMH: You don't expect me to work in the dark, do you? 
NEELIX: Well, no, but I'll never be able to fall asleep. 
EMH: That's not my problem, is it? 
NEELIX: I've got a very, very busy day tomorrow and my next shift is just four hours away. 
EMH: Perhaps you should have thought of that when choosing your accommodations. 
NEELIX: Well, if we can't sleep, I guess we'll just have to find some other way to pass the time. How about a sing-along? I could teach you all some Talaxian rondos and I know a Vulcan funeral dirge, not to mention the classics of Klingon opera. 
(Neelix makes a strangled noise.)
EMH: Very well, Mister Neelix. You win. Pleasant dreams. 
NEELIX: Computer, lights off. 
[Planet surface]
(A fumerole makes Seven nearly jump out of her environmental suit.)
CHAKOTAY: You're a little jumpy, aren't you? 
SEVEN: I thought I heard something. 
CHAKOTAY: Now you know why they call it Demon Class. 
SEVEN: Demon implies a presence. This planetoid is unoccupied. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm picking up the shuttlecraft. 
[Shuttlecraft]
(The back door is open wide.)
CHAKOTAY: Nobody home. 
SEVEN: It's unlikely their environmental suits were able to survive the elements for this long. 
CHAKOTAY: I hope you're wrong. 
[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they went this way. 
SEVEN: My tricorder isn't picking up any lifesigns. How did you reach that conclusion?
CHAKOTAY: Footprints. I guess you never assimilated any Indian scouts. 
[Cavern]
SEVEN: High concentrations of deuterium coming from this fluid. I'll collect a sample. 
(She takes vial 758 from her sample case and is about to dip it in the fluid when Chakotay stops her.)
CHAKOTAY: Let's find Tom and Harry first. We'll collect the deuterium later 
SEVEN: As you wish. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they found some shelter inside. 
(A rock ledge gives way under Chakotay's foot and he falls, just grabbing on to the remaining edge of the pit in time.)
SEVEN: Commander! 
(Seven tries to pull Chakotay to safety, then other hands join in the effort. Paris is not wearing an environmental suit.)
PARIS: Good to see you guys. Welcome to the Demon planet. Our suits were corroding, our lungs were burning. We were suffocating. You know what they say about your life passing before your eyes? Well, it's true. I was finally getting past puberty when suddenly, I lost consciousness. I don't know how long I was out but, the next thing I knew, I was awake and I was breathing normally. And I looked over at Harry. He was breathing normally too, with his helmet off. And, and we just looked at each other, and we just started laughing. I know it sounds crazy, but it was an exhilarating experience. 
SEVEN: His vital signs are normal. Apparently he has adapted. 
CHAKOTAY: Just the same, we'd better let the Doctor take a look at you. Chakotay to Voyager. 
PARIS: I've already tried that. The comm. signal can't get out of the caves. 
CHAKOTAY: Then we'll call again when we get back outside. 
PARIS: I'm telling you, Chakotay. It was an amazing experience. It, it's like when you're a kid who's afraid of the water and you suddenly realise that you can swim. Go ahead, take your helmets off. Try it. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm glad you're feeling all right, but none of us should be taking any risks until we know exactly what's going on. 
PARIS: Don't tell me that a big, tough guy like you is afraid of a little poisoned atmosphere?
CHAKOTAY: Where's Harry? 
PARIS: He's further inside the cave. We found a huge cache of deuterium. 
CHAKOTAY: Let's find him and get you two back to the ship. 
PARIS: Whatever you say, boss, but I'm telling you. We could breathe this air forever. 
[Engineering]
VORIK: Lieutenant. 
TORRES: Yes? 
VORIK: We should have transporters back online within the hour. 
TORRES: Well, that's great. But right now I'm more concerned with little things like, oh, I don't know, say, life support? 
VORIK: Indeed. According to my calculations, environmental systems will cease to function in two hours. 
TORRES: You say that like you're giving me the weather report. 
VORIK: I agree the situation is dire, but losing our cool will not help matters. 
TORRES: Losing our cool? Where did you pick up that expression? 
VORIK: Mister Paris. 
TORRES: Well, there's hope for you yet. Now, how about giving me a hand. 
[Cavern]
(Paris leads Chakotay and Seven through a narrow tunnel.)
CHAKOTAY: Harry. 
KIM: Commander. Isn't it incredible? 
PARIS: That's what I've been trying to tell them. 
CHAKOTAY: Are you feeling okay, Harry? 
KIM: Never better. If we could get mobile transporters down here, we could mine enough deuterium to get us all the way to the Alpha Quadrant and back again. 
CHAKOTAY: Tom tells me you've already picked up twenty kilos. That should be enough to get the main systems back online. Let's get back to the ship. Have the Doctor take a look at you. 
KIM: I'd rather stay here and keep working, if it's all the same to you. 
CHAKOTAY: It's not. 
KIM: Really, Commander, I'm fine. You should send some more personnel out to help. They won't even need environmental suits. 
CHAKOTAY: I appreciate your enthusiasm, but we're going back to Voyager. Now. 
PARIS: It's all right, Harry. Once the Doc takes a look at us and sees we're fine, we'll get right back to work. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Status, Mister Tuvok? 
TUVOK: I've shut down life support everywhere but decks one and five. It should provide us with an extra hour of breathable air. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Voyager. 
JANEWAY: Janeway here. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've found Tom and Harry. 
JANEWAY: First good news I've had all day. What about the deuterium? 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We've got 
[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: A few kilos. We're on our way back to Voyager now. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: What's your position? 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: About two kilometres from the ship. 
TUVOK: Captain. 
JANEWAY: Transporters are coming back online. We should be able to beam you back from that distance, but it may take a few minutes. 
[Planet surface]
CHAKOTAY: Have the Doctor standing by. I think he's going to want to look at Tom and Harry. 
[Sickbay]
(The sound of snoring ripples through the air. The EMH strides out of his office.)
EMH: Computer, lights. Maximum illumination. Everybody up! Rise and shine, Mister Neelix. 
NEELIX: What's going on? 
EMH: It's checkout time. 
NEELIX: It's the middle of the night. 
EMH: Medicine knows no time clock. I've got patients on the way and there's no more room at the inn. 
NEELIX: Patients. Is somebody sick? 
EMH: I can't answer that until I've examined them, now can I? 
NEELIX: Examine who? 
EMH: Ensign Kim and Lieutenant Paris. 
NEELIX: Is there anything I can do to help? 
EMH: Yes. You and your friends can vacate the premises. 
NEELIX: Right, move! You heard the Doctor. This is an emergency evacuation. Move! Move! Move! Doctor. 
EMH: Yes?
NEELIX: Thanks for your hospitality. And if you ever need a place to stay, my door's always open. 
[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Energising. 
(Janeway takes over the transport. Paris and Kim start gasping for breath as soon as they are solid.)#
JANEWAY: Beam Tom and Harry to Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: What happened to them? 
CHAKOTAY: As soon as we beamed aboard they started suffocating. 
EMH: Computer, erect a level seven forcefield around biobeds one and two. 
COMPUTER: Forcefield established. 
JANEWAY: What are you doing? 
EMH: Filling the area inside the forcefield with the atmospheric gases from the planet. Try to breathe normally now. Easy, or you'll hyperventilate. Slowly. In and out. In and out. 
Captain's log, supplemental. The Doctor continues to investigate Tom and Harry, whose condition seems as serious as it is strange. 
[Sickbay]
(The EMH holds a vial of the fluid from the pool.)
PARIS: That stuff is in our blood? 
EMH: I'm afraid so. From what I can tell, you've been bioformed. 
KIM: Bioformed? 
EMH: Think of it as the opposite of terraforming. In the same way we adapt the environment of a planet to suit our needs, this planet has adapted you. 
PARIS: How is that possible? 
EMH: This fluid somehow entered your bloodstream and began altering your physiology at the cellular level. I haven't had the time to analyse this substance, but I hope to have answers soon. 
JANEWAY: I'd like to run a few tests of my own, if you don't mind. 
EMH: Of course. 
PARIS: So, what's our prognosis, Doc? 
EMH: Well, you'll be fine. As long as you keep breathing the planet's gases. 
KIM: You mean we have to stay inside this forcefield? 
EMH: I'm afraid it's worse than that. The atmosphere of this planet can't be replicated safely. 
PARIS: Which means if we leave, we'll have nothing to breathe. 
EMH: Exactly. Either we find a way to treat your condition, or you'll have to be left behind. 
JANEWAY: Can the bioforming process be reversed? 
EMH: As it stands, I don't know enough about the phenomenon to undo it. 
JANEWAY: I'll send Chakotay and Seven back to the surface. They'll gather as much information as they can. B'Elanna and I will start running tests on this. 
KIM: Let me go with the away team, Captain. I know the terrain. I can help. 
JANEWAY: Doctor? 
EMH: Right now they're better off out there than they are in here. But one of you will have to remain so I can monitor your condition. 
KIM: No problem. I volunteer Tom to stay here and play guinea pig. 
[Planet surface]
SEVEN: Each square kilometre of this planetoid is less appealing than the last. 
KIM: I think it's breathtaking. 
SEVEN: Breathtaking? 
KIM: Yes. 
SEVEN: Perhaps your recent experience has impaired your perceptions. 
KIM: No, I don't think so. I wasn't really seeing it before. 
CHAKOTAY: Seeing what? 
KIM: The beauty. 
SEVEN: Would you care to point out an example? 
KIM: Look over there. What do you see? 
SEVEN: I see monochromatic geological formations, dust, haze. 
CHAKOTAY: What do you see, Harry? 
KIM: To me, those geological formations are a dozen shades of red and gold. That dust, it's glowing. And the haze, it seems to intensify the colours. I'm sorry. I know it's weird, but I feel connected to this place. 
CHAKOTAY: Connected how? 
SEVEN: I'm picking up humanoid lifesigns. 
CHAKOTAY: Location? 
SEVEN: One hundred metres this way. 
[Science lab]
(The fluid is under the microscope.)
JANEWAY: Magnify. Factor ten. Deuterium, hydrogen sulphate, dichromates. 
TORRES: Add a little sodium chloride and it would probably taste a lot like Neelix's soup. 
JANEWAY: We should be so lucky. Oh, what's this? Magnify. Factor twenty. 
TORRES: Captain? That's a protein molecule. 
JANEWAY: This fluid has organic properties. Let me see the sample that's been treated with the reagents. 
(The sample slithers onto Torres' thumb.)
TORRES: Captain. 
JANEWAY: Let's get you to sickbay. 
TORRES: Wait. That might not be necessary.
(The sample returns to its dish, then becomes a replica of the thumb.) 
[Cavern]
KIM: Commander!
(Two bodies in environmental suits are lying on the ground, creating the lifesigns on the tricorder. Kim rolls one over and looks at himself.) 
[Science lab]
(A pool of fluid is forming beneath Voyager. The softening ground makes one landing strut sink, jolting the ship.)
JANEWAY: Janeway to bridge. Report. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: A large pool of the metallic compound is forming beneath the ship. We are sinking, Captain. 
[Science lab]
JANEWAY: On my way. Get down to Engineering. Get thrusters online. We're getting off this planet. 
[Cavern]
KIM: I'm not sure how, but they're still alive. 
SEVEN: Just barely. 
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead. 
TUVOK [OC]: The Captain has ordered an emergency ascent. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: We must bring you back to the ship. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Understood. I've got five to beam back. 
TUVOK: Five? 
[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: We found another Paris and Kim. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY [OC]: I can't explain it. 
JANEWAY: I think I can. Prepare for transport. 
[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Beam us directly to Sickbay. 
KIM: No. I don't want to go back. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Transporters are still acting up. We can't get individual locks. We're going to have to grab you in a wide beam and bring you in as a group. 
[Cavern]
CHAKOTAY: Acknowledged. 
KIM: I belong here. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe so. But until we know what's going on, you've got to come back with us to the ship. Harry, no!
(Demon Kim runs off.) 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Four of the away team are in Sickbay, Captain. I'm trying to get a lock on the fifth. It is Ensign Kim or rather, one of the Ensigns Kim. The ship is continuing to sink. 
JANEWAY: Then there's no time. We've got to get back into orbit. We'll worry about Harry or whoever he is once we're up. Bring antigrav thrusters online. 
(Janeway takes the helm.)
TUVOK: Thrusters enabled. 
JANEWAY: Inertial dampers to flight configuration. 
TUVOK: Dampers reconfigured. All stations report ready. 
JANEWAY: Initiating ascent. I need power to the thrusters. 
TUVOK: We are being restrained by an electromagnetic force. 
JANEWAY: Compensate. 
TUVOK: No effect. Decks fourteen and fifteen are submerged. The ship is continuing to sink. 
JANEWAY: Report. 
TUVOK: Thrusters are offline due to an overload. Decks thirteen through fifteen are submerged. If we don't lift off soon, the hull will begin to corrode. 
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. 
[Engineering]
VORIK: Ensign Vorik here. 
JANEWAY [OC]: I need thrusters back online. 
VORIK: Lieutenant Torres has already sent a team to the thruster control junction. 
JANEWAY [OC]: How long? 
VORIK: At least a half an hour. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Even if thrusters are repaired, they won't be of much use if we sink any deeper. 
JANEWAY: There must be some way to disperse it. Try a nadion burst from the phaser emitters. It may weaken the electromagnetic properties of the fluid. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: I'm on my way to Sickbay to check on Harry and Tom. You've got the bridge. 
[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: How are they? 
EMH: Lucky. The backup systems in their environmental suits kept their vital functions going. It'll take time, but they'll recover. 
JANEWAY: And him? 
EMH: Aside from his ability to breathe the rarified air on this planet, he's the exact duplicate of Mister Paris. He even seems to share his memories, not to mention his winning personality. 
JANEWAY: B'Elanna and I discovered that the fluid has mimetic properties. Somehow, it reads the DNA of whatever it comes in contact with and re-creates it. 
EMH: Fascinating. 
JANEWAY: Can you tell me who you are? 
DEMON PARIS: Please, just let me go back. 
JANEWAY: Not until I find out why two of my crew have been duplicated. 
DEMON PARIS: Captain, you have to believe me. I don't know any more than you do about this. Until he showed up, I thought I was Tom Paris. A little changed by my experience on the planet maybe, but now I don't know who or what I am. All I know is that I have to get off this ship and go back down to the surface. 
TUVOK [OC]: We're ready to try the nadion burst, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Do it. 
(It hurts Demon Paris.)
DEMON PARIS: Ow. What are you doing? 
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, we're receiving an urgent hail. It's from Ensign Kim. The one on the surface. 
JANEWAY: Put him through. 
DEMON KIM [OC]: Captain, please. Stop what you're doing. 
JANEWAY: If you really do have Harry Kim's memories, you know that I'm going to do whatever it takes to get this ship back in orbit. 
[Planet surface]
DEMON KIM: You can't do that! 
JANEWAY [OC]: Why not? 
DEMON KIM: I, I'm not sure I understand it myself. 
[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Well then, you're going to have to help me figure it out. Mister Tuvok, I'm on my way to transporter room one. Erect a level seven forcefield around the platform. Fill it with atmosphere from the planet and then beam Mister Kim, or rather his duplicate, aboard. 
TUVOK [OC]: Aye, Captain. 
[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: Do you have a lock on him? 
TRANSPORTER TECHNICIAN: Yes, ma'am. 
JANEWAY: Energise. 
(Demon Kim is beamed aboard.)
JANEWAY: Release my vessel. 
DEMON KIM: We can't do that. 
JANEWAY: We? 
DEMON KIM: The planet and I, we're connected somehow. I can't explain it, Captain. I only know that you've got to stop. 
JANEWAY: And I'm willing to stop. But I'll say it again, release the ship. 
DEMON KIM: No. We need you. 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Fire. 
(Demon Kim falls, and briefly appears made of the fluid.)
JANEWAY: What are you? 
DEMON KIM: Stop. No. 
JANEWAY: I'll fire again. 
DEMON KIM: You're killing us! 
JANEWAY: You leave me no choice. 
DEMON KIM: It's not fair. It's wrong!;
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. 
DEMON KIM: No! No, no, no. Please. No more. 
JANEWAY: Hold your fire, Tuvok.
TUVOK [OC]: Captain, we are continuing to submerge. 
JANEWAY: Hold your fire. 
TUVOK [OC]: Acknowledged. 
JANEWAY: I want some answers. 
DEMON KIM: I'm trying to understand. This is hard for me as well. 
JANEWAY: You said you have a connection to this planet. You talk about it like it's alive. 
DEMON KIM: Alive. Yes, but not the planet. The silver blood. 
JANEWAY: The compound that sampled Harry's DNA, and created you. 
DEMON KIM: Yes. but it's never been conscious, never sentient before now. Before me and the other. 
JANEWAY: Tom Paris. 
DEMON KIM: We're the first. Don't you see? You came here. You showed us. When the compound came in contact with Tom and Harry, it experienced awareness for the first time. Before, it was only instinct, sound and light and heat. But those two showed us thought. 
JANEWAY: I'm beginning to understand. This silver blood experienced sentience, and now you want more. You want to duplicate the rest of this crew and populate this planet. 
DEMON KIM: You're trying so hard to reach home, but this can be home. 
JANEWAY: Not for me, and not for my people. Do you understand why we can't stay here? 
DEMON KIM: I think so. 
JANEWAY: Well then, release us. 
DEMON KIM: We'd rather die than be alone. We deserve life. 
JANEWAY: This silver blood that created you. It duplicated Harry without killing him. So you don't need our bodies, only samples of;DNA. Release Voyager and I'll speak to my crew. And if they're willing, I'll let you duplicate the rest of us. 
TUVOK [OC]: Bridge to Janeway. We've stopped, Captain. We're no longer submerging. 
JANEWAY: Understood. We're getting out of here, Tuvok, but first assemble the crew in Cargo Bay one 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY [OC]: And have the Doctor meet me there. 
TUVOK: Captain? 
JANEWAY [OC]: I'll explain later. 
[Transporter room]
JANEWAY: It's time to meet your new family. 
[Bridge]
(Voyager is standing on solid ground again.)
KIM: All stations report ready for lift off. 
TUVOK: Code blue status confirmed. 
JANEWAY: Take us up, Mister Paris. 
PARIS: Aye, Captain.
(Voyager flies away, leaving behind over a hundred apparently Starfleet people.) 

