Episode Number: 302
The Voyager Transcripts - Remember
Remember
Stardate: 50203.1
Original Airdate: October 9 1996
Captain's log, stardate 50203.1. We're three days away from Enara Prime, home of the passengers we picked up from a colony in the Fima system. Our high warp capability has greatly reduced the time it normally takes them to make the journey home. In return, the Enarans have shared their energy conservation technology with us and, perhaps more importantly, their friendship. 
[Engineering]
(Torres is talking with a female Enaran.) 
TORRES: You've never been there? 
JESSEN: Well, the trip back to the homeland usually takes so long. I don't to see it that badly. I've spent my whole life in the Fima colony, and I've always considered it my home. 
(An old woman approaches them.) 
MIRELL: You'll change your mind when you see the Danius cliffs at dawn. 
JESSEN: Yes, I've heard they're beautiful. 
MIRELL: You'll know what beautiful truly means when you stand on the cliffs on a rainy morning and watch the raindrops turn to mist when they hit the molten sea. 
TORRES: That sounds wonderful. 
JESSEN: It looks like our new components are still slightly out of sync with your EPS system. 
TORRES: I can't isolate it. We'll have to check through all of them. 
JESSEN: Maybe Harry could give us a hand? 
TORRES: Well, I'm sure he would if you asked him. Harry, you got a minute? 
KIM: Sure. 
JESSEN: Could you help us check the modified power relays? There's a minor flow problem. 
KIM: I'd be happy to help. 
TORRES: Good. Then we'll get started first thing in the morning. 
KIM: Well, if we're done for the night, maybe we could go get something to eat. 
MIRELL: Thank you, but I'll be headed back to bed. I'm sure you young people will manage without me. Goodnight. 
JESSEN: Goodnight. 
KIM: So, I guess it'll just be the three of us. 
TORRES: Actually, getting some rest sounded like a pretty good idea. Why don't you go on without me. 
(Kim and Jessen leave.) 
TORRES: No, really, I insist. 
[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
(A tapping on the bathroom window gets her out of bed. She opens it and a young man climbs in to kiss her.) 
TORRES: What took you so long? 
(She tears his clothes off and they tumble onto the bed.) 
DATHAN: Korenna. 
TORRES: Shush. 
[B'Elanna's quarters]
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna. B'Elanna, wake up. 
TORRES: What. 
CHAKOTAY: Your duty shift started twenty minutes ago. I tried to reach you on the comm. but you didn't answer. 
TORRES: I guess, I guess I must have slept right through it. Sorry. 
CHAKOTAY: Are you feeling all right? 
TORRES: Yes, of course. I'll be there in a minute. 
[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: This is the second morning you've been late. 
TORRES: I'll make up the time. It won't happen again. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm not concerned about the duty schedule, B'Elanna. If there's something wrong 
TORRES: I'm fine. 
CHAKOTAY: Ah, you mean fine like when you insisted on finishing the hoverball championship with a broken ankle? 
TORRES: I mean there's nothing wrong. I was only late because I've been having these dreams. They're very intense, that's all. 
[Engineering]
CHAKOTAY: Intensely bad? 
TORRES: No, just the opposite. 
CHAKOTAY: So they're enjoyable. Stimulating. 
TORRES: They are the most sensual dreams I've ever had in my life. And they feel absolutely real. 
CHAKOTAY: I don't suppose you've been dreaming about anyone in particular? 
TORRES: Nobody you know. Actually, he's nobody I know, either. He's Enaran. 
CHAKOTAY: One of our passengers? 
TORRES: No. No. In the dreams, I know him. More than that, I'm in love with him. Oh, but it's not really me in the dream, it's somebody else entirely. In a way, it's liberating. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm sure. So I assume I won't have to write up a report on your chronic oversleeping? 
TORRES: If you say a word about this to anyone 
CHAKOTAY: I know. You'll rip my heart out and eat it raw. Your secret's safe with me. 
[Corridor]
(In smart casual wear, coming out of the turbolift.) 
KIM: So what exactly is this big surprise? 
PARIS: All I know is that Neelix has been working on it all afternoon. He wouldn't even let me in there to get a snack. 
[Mess hall]
(The place has been transformed. The tables and chairs are gone, replaced with cushions and drapes.) 
NEELIX: Welcome to Enara! 
PARIS: It's very colourful. 
NEELIX: Specifically the colours of the Enaran flag. The decor, the menu, the music, all authentically Enaran. 
KIM: What happened to the tables and chairs? 
NEELIX: Enarans don't use them. After a big meal, you can just lie back and take a nap. Very practical. 
PARIS: It's a little cold in here, isn't it? 
NEELIX: Perhaps a bit chillier than you're used to, but just about perfect for 
PARIS: The Enarans. I got it. 
NEELIX: You must try some of these delightful algae puffs. They're fresh from the oven. 
JESSEN: Harry. 
KIM: Maybe later. 
(Kim goes to sit next to Jessen. They are all listening to a man running his fingers over a large hemisphere in a piece of carved wood, similar in size and shape to a ukulele.) 
JANEWAY: That was wonderful. What a lovely piece of music. 
BREL: You should thank Jora Mirell. She composed it. 
MIRELL: I still think you're rushing the harmonics in the second movement. 
JANEWAY: I love music. I've always regretted that I never learnt to play an instrument. 
BREL: I'd be glad to help you if you like. 
JANEWAY: I'd like it very much. I'm sure I could find time for a few lessons. 
(Janeway takes the instrument and runs her fingers over the dome, producing a tune. She doesn't know that Jor Brel is holding his hand out flat just behind her back. Suddenly, Janeway gasps and stops.) 
TUVOK: Captain! 
JANEWAY: I'm all right. 
BREL: I did understand you correctly, that you wanted to share my knowledge of music? 
JANEWAY: I didn't realise you were offering to share it so directly. The sensation was a little overwhelming. 
BREL: I am terribly sorry, Captain. I assumed since you knew about our telepathic abilities, I. I never would have dreamed of making a connection without your consent. 
JANEWAY: You intended to give me a gift, and it was wonderful. 
TUVOK: Your abilities allow you to transfer knowledge from your own mind to another's? 
BREL: Not precisely. We're able to share our experiences through a telepathic link. 
JANEWAY: I remembered lessons, and hours of practice. Were those all your experiences? 
TUVOK: Intriguing. 
JANEWAY: Remarkable. 
(Over by the counter, Chakotay has picked up a pair of small metal balls from a bowl.) 
NEELIX: You take a couple of these, roll them around like this, and voila! Your hands are clean and disinfected. The Enarans are very hygienic. I haven't seen Lieutenant Torres around here tonight. I suppose she's putting in another late night in Engineering. 
CHAKOTAY: Actually, I think she might have gone to bed early tonight. 
[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
(Korenna is getting a lecture from her father.) 
JARETH: I'm not one to dictate who your friends are, but I'm sure you can see as clearly as I can that some friends are less suitable than others. 
TORRES: Like Dathan? 
JARETH: Yes. You promised you wouldn't see him anymore and then I heard you were talking to him again the other day. 
TORRES: He came up to me on the street. I couldn't help it. 
JARETH: Korenna, don't you see I am thinking of him as well as you? Now you only encourage him this way and that isn't very fair, is it? 
TORRES: What isn't fair is that you treat him like everybody else. He's different. If you'd just talk to him you'd understand that. 
JARETH: You know, one of the things I love about you most is your compassion for others. But you're still young, and you don't realise that there are some people who might take advantage of that compassion. Now, I want you to promise me if he comes up to you again you'll just walk away. That should be clear enough. 
TORRES: I'm sure. 
JARETH: And finish your tarin juice. It's good for you. 
(Torres/Korenna takes a mouthful of the blue liquid and he leaves.) 
TORRES: He's gone. 
(Dathan comes out from behind the bathroom curtain.) 
DATHAN: I should go. 
TORRES: He's leaving for work soon. It's safer to wait. 
DATHAN: You know, this will only encourage me. 
TORRES: I hope so! 
(Dathan nuzzles her neck, then Torres becomes alarmed and pushes him away. Dathan's face is burnt. Torres wakes up in fright.) 
[Chakotay's office]
TORRES: We've completed the modifications on the primary EPS conduits. I have a crew starting on the backup systems. 
CHAKOTAY: Can you get it done before we drop off the Enarans? 
TORRES: Yes. We'll have to pull some longer shifts, but two more days should do it. 
CHAKOTAY: Is there something else on your mind? 
TORRES: Those dreams I've been having, they're getting kind of strange. 
CHAKOTAY: In what way? 
TORRES: Last night, in the middle of the dream, I was kissing him, my lover, and suddenly he was dead, burned. 
CHAKOTAY: B'Elanna
TORRES: But there's more going on than just a love affair. I'm having a relationship with this man, but my father doesn't approve, so we have to sneak around. It's like each new dream advances the story. 
CHAKOTAY: It sounds like a holonovel. 
TORRES: It feels like it's actually happening! Physically, emotionally, it's no different from real life. I've never had dreams like this before. 
CHAKOTAY: It can't be a coincidence that this is going on while we have a group of telepaths on board. 
TORRES: Exactly. I want to find out more about what these Enarans can do. 
CHAKOTAY: Why don't you ask your friend in Engineering. 
TORRES: I'm going to. 
CHAKOTAY: I'll talk to the Captain. She should know anything that might involve our guests. 
TORRES: Right. 
(Torres walks out and down the corridor, and goes into -) 
[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]
(Jareth is at a podium, addressing a crowd of young people, including Korenna.) 
JARETH: Once I stood where you are during the early days of interstellar exploration. It was an important leap forward for our people and I was proud to be part of it. Today, with the advent of terraforming, we stand ready to take another leap forward into an era of expansion and colonisation. You will show us the way. There are some who resist progress. Do not let the voices of fear and ignorance discourage you. Claim your rightful place as leaders of a new era. The future of Enara is in your hands. (applause) Now today we honour a group of young people who represent our best hope for that future. It is a great pleasure to give this first award to my own daughter, Korenna. 
(She steps forward to have the medallion placed around her neck.) 
JARETH: I'm so very proud of you. 
(She meets Dathan in a shady colonnade at the side of the square.) 
DATHAN: It looks good on you. 
TORRES: What are you doing here? 
DATHAN: Today's important for you and I wanted to be here. 
TORRES: I'm glad you came. I know this award will help me get into the District Education Centre. I could be a junior instructor in less than a year. 
DATHAN: I'm really happy for you. 
TORRES: Maybe you could take the entrance examination too. 
DATHAN: It's impossible. I can't go to the Centre. 
TORRES: Nothing is impossible if you want it badly enough. I want us to be together. 
DATHAN: I love you, Korenna. It's just so frustrating. I can't stand being away from you all the time. 
TORRES: Oh, I know. 
DATHAN: Oh, I wish I could hold you right now.
TORRES: What would you do if you could? 
DATHAN: I'll show you. 
(He places his hand on her back. Then a bell sounds.) 
DATHAN: I'll see you tonight. 
TORRES: No, no. There's going to be a big dinner with my father's friends. 
DATHAN: Tomorrow night then. 
TORRES: Tomorrow. 
(Dathan leaves her to join a line of Enarans walking past guards, and having their IDs scanned. The bell must be a curfew for the lower orders.) 
GUARD: Have your identification ready. 
GUARD 2: Come on, this way, this way. 
GUARD: All the way out. Let's move. 
(The gates close behind Dathan.) 
[Corridor]
(Kes finds Torres passed out in the corridor.) 
KES: B'Elanna, can you hear me? Kes to Sickbay. Medical emergency. 
[Sickbay]
(The EMH shines a light in Torres' eye, and she sits up.) 
EMH: Good to see you're awake, Lieutenant. 
TORRES: What happened? 
KES: I found you unconscious in the corridor near Engineering. 
TORRES: I was dreaming again. 
EMH: Not according to your cortical theta wave readings. The pattern clearly indicated that you were experiencing memories. Specifically, implanted memories. 
TORRES: Implanted? By the Enarans? 
EMH: There's strong evidence of telepathic activity in your frontal lobe. 
JANEWAY: My experience with the Enaran's telepathy seems to be very different from yours. Jor Brel was standing near me when I received his memories. Where there any Enarans near you when you had your dreams? 
TORRES: No, I was alone every time. 
JANEWAY: You've also been asleep or unconscious every time. The shared memories feel like vivid dreams to you. 
EMH: In the Lieutenant's case, the memories seem to have been placed in her unconscious. They're only emerging when her conscious mind is inactive. 
KES: Why did she pass out? 
EMH: The synaptic patterns of the implanted memories are not quite compatible with her neural pathways. There's been some minor cortical damage which I've corrected. 
JANEWAY: Can you prevent further damage? 
EMH: This inhibitor will control her theta wave activity. That should suppress the memories. 
TORRES: I won't have any more of the dreams? 
EMH: That's the idea. 
(Torres recoils from the inhibitor.) 
KES: What's wrong? 
TORRES: If the dreams stop, I'll never know what happens to these people. This woman, Korenna, I feel what she feels, and right now she is torn and confused about her loyalties and I don't know what I'm, she's going to do. 
EMH: I don't think satisfying your curiosity is worth risking brain damage, Lieutenant. 
(The EMH fits the inhibitor behind Torres' left ear.) 
JANEWAY: I'm giving you the next two days off duty. Use them to rest. I'll speak with Brel and find out what's happening to you. 
TORRES: I'd like to come with you, Captain. I'd rest a lot better if I had some answers. 
[Ready room]
BREL: I find it impossible that any of us could be doing this purposely. 
TUVOK: You do possess the ability to share your experiences without mutual consent. 
BREL: Yes, but it just isn't done. I know that we had a misunderstanding before, Captain, but I assure you we have strict ethics. 
JANEWAY: We're not suggesting otherwise. We're only trying to find out how this is happening. 
BREL: Well, I have heard of instances where members of some alien races have been affected by the slight telepathic field we generate, but nothing as intense as what your Lieutenant has described. 
JANEWAY: And according to our doctor, they're memories. 
BREL: That's possible. She may be picking up stray thoughts and memories from every Enaran on the ship. Must be terribly confusing. Perhaps that's why her mind has organised it into a kind of narrative. 
TORRES: Are you saying that I'm making this all up? 
BREL: No, no, no. Some elements may very well have come from our actual experiences. I confess I may have crawled into a bedroom window or two in my youth. You mentioned a citizenship award. There are several past recipients in our group. We may be each contributing some small details to your story. 
TORRES: Nothing really happened the way I remember it? 
BREL: It's highly unlikely. 
JANEWAY: We appreciate your help, Jor Brel. 
BREL: I wish there was something more that I could do. I truly regret any ill effects that our presence here has caused you. 
JANEWAY: Well fortunately those effects are under control now. The doctor was able to suppress the memories. 
BREL: I'm very glad to hear that. 
(Jor Brel leaves.) 
TUVOK: His explanation is plausible. 
JANEWAY: B'Elanna. 
TORRES: I don't know. Those dreams are so real. Maybe he's right. 
JANEWAY: The Enarans haven't shown any hint of subterfuge, any hidden agenda. They've been nothing but straight forward and honest. You're in no immediate danger, and they'll be gone in another day. The situation will resolve itself. 
TUVOK: And yet you fully intend to continue investigating. 
JANEWAY: I wonder how long it's been since I did anything that surprised you? 
TUVOK: I share your concern, Captain. We haven't ruled out the possibility that this may be a deliberate act. 
JANEWAY: I want to talk to more of the Enarans, see what they have to say. 
TORRES: I'll talk to Jessen and Mirell. They've been working with me in Engineering. 
JANEWAY: You've done enough already, B'Elanna. I want you to get some rest. 
TORRES: But 
JANEWAY: You need to get away from this. We'll take it from here. 
Captain's log, stardate 50211.4. We're approaching Enara and preparing to host a farewell party for our guests. They've made every effort to help us understand their telepathic abilities, but it's still a mystery why they've affected Lieutenant Torres so strongly. 
[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
(Torres takes off her inhibitor and lies down on her bed. Almost immediately, she is Korenna, sitting at her dressing table.) 
JARETH: Korenna, are you ready? You'll do well. I'll be there with you. 
TORRES: This is all voluntary, isn't it? They want to be resettled. 
JARETH: Of course. Although it's impossible to understand what these Regressives want. They simply don't think like we do. How do we relate to people who refuse all but the most primitive technology? Who live their lives without a communications interlink or microfusion generators? 
TORRES: If that's the way they want to live, why can't they? 
JARETH: Well, they can. That's why we're helping them to resettle. So that they can be completely comfortable practicing a way of life that they've chosen. 
TORRES: They could do that here, in their village. 
JARETH: Well, you wouldn't say that if you'd ever been inside that place. Do you realise they won't even use radioseptics to sterilise their homes or their hands before they eat? It's a miracle they haven't started a plague by now. 
TORRES: Then it's dangerous to have them living here. 
JARETH: Yes, it is, and we've been tolerant for a very long time, but I think by now even they realise that they'd be better off living somewhere else. 
TORRES: But some of them want to stay here. 
JARETH: Well, there are always some people who resist change even if they know it's best for them, and once they see their friends and family happily settled in a new colony, they'll want to go as well. 
[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]
GUARD: Demelos! 
GUARD 2: Demelos, move along. 
(Korenna checks the young man's ID as he enters the square.) 
GUARD: Sanric. Farran. 
(The young woman speaks to Korenna.) 
FARRAN: What's going to happen to us? 
TORRES: You'll have a new place to live with your own kind. You'll be much happier there. 
FARREN: Please, can you tell me 
GUARD: Move along 
FARREN: I only want to know where we're going! 
(She is moved on roughly by a guard.) 
GUARD: Lishan. Alaris. Dathan Alaris! 
(Korenna goes to the gate.) 
JARETH: Where is he? 
TORRES: He couldn't be leaving today. 
JARETH: Did you warn him? Did you tell him he was on the list? 
TORRES: I didn't even know that he was. You put his name there, didn't you. To keep him away from me? 
WOMAN: Don't! No! 
(Korenna is hit by an unwilling transportee, and falls to the ground with a big cut on her face.) 
[B'Elanna's quarters]
(Torres wakes up.) 
TORRES: Computer, locate Jora Mirell. 
COMPUTER: Jora Mirell is in her quarters. 
[Mirell's quarters]
(Jora does not answer her knocks, so Torres overrides the door controls and enters. She finds the old woman lying on the floor.) 
TORRES: I'll get you to Sickbay. 
MIRELL: No. I have to give you the rest of it. 
TORRES: You are Korenna? These are your memories. 
MIRELL: Yes. 
TORRES: Why give them to me? 
MIRELL: You won't deny the truth. We've been hiding it. I couldn't anymore. When they found out I was sharing it with you 
TORRES: Who did? 
MIRELL: Don't let the memories die. Promise me! 
TORRES: I don't understand. 
(Mirell grabs Torres and pulls her close.) 
[B'Elanna's dream - Bedroom]
(Korenna is playing the Enaran instrument when she hears tapping at her bathroom window. She lets Dathan in.) 
TORRES: My father's home. If he hears you 
DATHAN: What happened? 
TORRES: One of your friends made some trouble on the resettlement line today. You were on the list, too. Where were you? 
DATHAN: Some of us got away. We're leaving tonight. Come with me. Korenna, it's the only way we can be together now. 
TORRES: You're asking me to abandon my family, my career. 
DATHAN: Yes, I am! Leave it all behind. What's happening here is wrong, Korenna. Don't be a part of it any more. 
TORRES: It's just a resettlement. 
DATHAN: It's more than that. My uncle and his family were resettled two months ago and we haven't heard from them since. Nobody I know has had any contact with this new colony we're supposed to be going to. 
TORRES: There could be a perfectly good reason for that. 
DATHAN: There are stories. I've heard that the transports don't really go anywhere, that the passengers just get vaporised in some kind of thermal sweep. Korenna, thousands of us have gone already. We're being slaughtered. 
TORRES: It's ridiculous! No one is being killed. My father told me about 
DATHAN: Your father is lying to you. I'm sorry, but you have got to make a choice. You can't go on trying to believe in both of us anymore. Either he is right and you should never see me again, or I'm right and he is part of a terrible crime. 
TORRES: No, my father is a good man. 
DATHAN: I can show you how we're rounded up for these voluntary resettlements, how the soldiers treat Regressives who won't go quietly. I know it is hard to face, but you have to. It is too important. Now, let me show you. 
TORRES: No, I 
JARETH [OC]: Korenna! 
(She hides Dathan in the bathroom.) 
TORRES: Come in. I was just practising. 
JARETH: I've always said you have the talent to play professionally. How are you feeling? 
TORRES: I've been better. 
JARETH: Well, don't think about it any more. That Regressive was completely irrational. He attacked you for no reason. 
TORRES: Maybe he thought he had a reason. Maybe he was afraid. 
JARETH: I know there are some very disturbing rumours coming from these people. You may have heard them from that boy. You know, the thing that is so insidious about these Regressives is that they pretend to be passive, not harming anyone, and all the while they're spreading their lies, trying to make you believe these awful things. 
TORRES: Why would they do that? 
JARETH: They have some twisted ideas about resisting progress, which they think gives them the right to hold us back in any way that they can. They're trying to undermine us, to cause dissent and doubt. Just look at how they've affected you. 
TORRES: But, what they're saying is so horrible. 
JARETH: Yes, but it isn't very plausible. Korenna, think. A secret conspiracy against their people? Organised murder on such an enormous scale? Do you really believe that your family and friends are capable of that? 
TORRES: No. 
JARETH: Of course not. Now I know how hard it is for you to accept that anyone, even Regressives, could lie about something like that, but it is all part of their manipulation. These people have no conscience. They'll say anything to get what they want. Like that boy Dathan. Has he told you he's in love with you? He's not. It's his way of gaining your sympathy. And not only yours. I've seen him talking to quite a number of young women. Has he been asking you to trust him? He's poisoning you against your own people, even your own family. That's very cruel. No wonder you've been confused. But now you understand what these people are really like. 
(In tears, Korenna looks towards her bathroom. Jareth follows her gaze, gets up and pulls the curtains aside.) 
JARETH: You! 
DATHAN [OC]: No! No! No! 
(Jareth marches Dathan out, arms held behind his back.) 
[B'Elanna's dream - Town square]
(Dathan and the man who hit Korenna are fastened to posts.) 
JARETH: These criminals represent a growing threat to Enaran society. As responsible citizens we must fight back. With their punishment we send a clear signal to all Regressives. We will protect ourselves and our ideals from their destructive influence by whatever means necessary. 
(At a signal from Jareth, the posts that the men are fastened to glow purple. The crowd bay for their blood as they slump forward, burned. Korenna finally joins in.) 
TORRES: Yes! Yes! Yes! 
[B'Elanna's dream - Town square a few years later]
CHILD: Why did they all move away? 
TORRES: Because they didn't want to live with the rest of us anymore. 
CHILD: Why? 
TORRES: The Regressive people had very strange ideas about how to live. They didn't want to learn new things or use any of the new technology that we tried to share with them. They decided to live somewhere else on their own and we let them go. But they couldn't take very good care of themselves. They fought with each other, they spread all kinds of diseases. 
CHILD: And they all died? 
TORRES: They destroyed themselves. It was very sad. But we can learn from their mistakes. That's why we keep this gate here, to remind us never to be stubborn and backward like they were. 
CHILD: We'll remember. 
TORRES: I know you will. 
(Torres wakes up. Mirell is dead.) 
[Mess hall]
(In orbit of Enara.) 
BREL: I'd like to indulge in a new custom I've learnt. It's called making a toast. Captain Janeway and her gracious crew. We are very grateful to you for bringing us home. You will always have friends here. 
(Torres enters.) 
TORRES: Murderers! 
JANEWAY: Lieutenant. 
TORRES: You tried to hide what you did, but I know. I saw everything. The Regressives, the executions, wiping out an entire population and then blaming them for it. 
BREL: This is most uncomfortable, Captain. Perhaps a more private discussion would be 
TORRES: No, that's what you've been doing all along. Hiding the truth. Hoping it would just die away quietly. Please, this has to come out. 
JANEWAY: I think it's time we all understood what's been happening here. 
TORRES: My dreams. They are real memories from Jora Mirell. When she, when all of them were younger, there was a group of people they called Regressives. They just wanted to lead a different kind of life. But, but they don't exist anymore, do they? You exterminated them. 
BREL: These accusations are completely untrue. 
TORRES: You've spent you whole life covering it up, but then you realised that someone was passing the memories on to me, so you, you used me to figure out who it was and then you killed her. But you know, you were too late. Because Korenna gave me the last of her memories before she died. 
BREL: Korenna Mirell is dead? 
CHAKOTAY: And you have evidence that she was murdered? 
TORRES: No. They made it look like it was natural causes. 
TUVOK: You should know, Lieutenant, that I spoke with Jora Mirell yesterday. I asked her specifically about the memories you had experienced. She claimed not to know anything about them. 
TORRES: Of course she would say that. She was afraid for her life. 
JESSEN: No, you lying. The Enarans would never do anything like what you're saying. It's unthinkable. 
TORRES: It is the truth. I know that you don't want to believe it. In fact, they're counting on that. They always have. 
KIM: I know B'Elanna and I trust her. It can't hurt to listen. 
BREL: Nobody thinks you're lying, Lieutenant. The poor woman has been ill for a long time. Her memories may be distorted or perhaps your perception of them was coloured by elements from your culture. 
TORRES: No. I know that it's easier for you to believe that I'm crazy or hallucinating, but this woman shared her life, her whole identity with me. I was with her every step of the way as she convinced herself that what she did, betraying the man she loved, playing her part in a massacre, that it was all somehow for the good of Enaran society. She showed me everything. No apologies, no request for forgiveness, just the truth. At least she had the conscience to stand up and realise what she'd done wrong, which is more than I can say for you. 
BREL: I think it best that we now prepare for our departure, Captain. If you don't mind, I'd like to go to your sickbay to attend Jora Mirell. 
(Jor Brel leaves. Janeway speaks to Torres.) 
JANEWAY: I'm going to talk to the Doctor. I want to see you in my Ready room in one hour. 
[Ready room]
TORRES: I know that I could have found a better way to handle the situation than just charging into the mess hall like that. I was just too angry to think straight. Not the first time that's happened, I know, but if you had seen what I saw 
JANEWAY: I might have done exactly the same thing. 
TORRES: You believe me. 
JANEWAY: I believe that the memories you experienced were real. 
TORRES: Then we've got to do something about it. We have to make this public. 
JANEWAY: You tried that today, They didn't want to listen. 
TORRES: Then we have to find proof. Let me go down to the planet. There must be some evidence left of what really happened. Maybe there are other people like Korenna who might be willing to tell the truth. 
JANEWAY: Whatever the Enarans have done, it's not our place to bring them to justice. If they've chosen to conceal part of their history from their own descendants, that's their decision, whether we approve of it or not. 
TORRES: It's not just a matter of history. This could happen again if no one knows it happened before. 
JANEWAY: We simply have no right to get involved. 
TORRES: Jora Mirell was murdered on board this ship, which gives us a reason to investigate. Maybe, if we can expose the reason why she was killed, the Enarans will start to ask questions. 
JANEWAY: I've gotten a full report from the Doctor. He specifically looked for evidence to support your accusations. He didn't find any. 
TORRES: They could have used their telepathy somehow, in some way that the Doctor couldn't detect. 
JANEWAY: We have no basis for a murder investigation. I've released her body to the Enarans. 
TORRES: So that's it? We just go on our merry way and nobody ever has to take any kind of responsibility? 
JANEWAY: I've cancelled our trade negotiations as well as shore leave. We'll leave orbit as soon as the Enarans are off the ship. B'Elanna, I believe the Enaran engineers are collecting the last of their equipment right now. If there's anything more you'd like to say to any of them? 
TORRES: Thank you. Thank you, Captain. 
[Engineering]
(A guard is watching the Enarans.) 
TORRES: I'm relieving you. Can we talk for a minute? 
JESSEN: I have nothing to say to you. 
TORRES: Then just listen. Like Harry said, it couldn't hurt to do that. 
JESSEN: I'm leaving soon. 
TORRES: I know you have no reason to believe what I've said about your people. All you have is my word against everything you've ever been taught. 
JESSEN: That's right. 
TORRES: So prove me wrong. Go down to Enara and find the colony where the Regressives were supposed to live. Talk to people. Ask questions. Learn the truth for yourself. Let me tell you about my experiences, maybe that will give you some place to start. I wish I had your abilities. I could just show you. 
JESSEN: You would do that? Share your experiences openly? 
TORRES: Of course. Then you'd know I'm telling you the truth. 
JESSEN: I can make the connection between us. 
(Jessen stands and places her hand on Torres' back.) 
[Korenna's memories - Bedroom]
(She is woken by a tapping on the bathroom window. She goes and lets Dathan in.) 
JESSEN: What took you so long? 

