Episode Number: 316
The Voyager Transcripts - Before And After
Before And After
Stardate: 50601.9
Original Airdate: 9th April, 1997
EMH [OC]: Activate the bio-temporal chamber. 
[Sickbay, 2379]
(A young man, a young woman in a Starfleet uniform, and the EMH with hair are gathered around a biobed.) 
ANDREW: Is she going to be all right? 
EMH: Not if you don't all clear out of here and let me do my work. 
LINNIS: She's my mother. I'm staying. 
EMH: This is a very delicate procedure, and I could use some peace and quiet. 
PARIS [OC]: The Doctor's right. Let him do his work. 
LINNIS: All right. 
(Andrew and Linnis leave.) 
EMH: I wish I'd told you this before, but better late than never. You're the finest friend I've ever had. Prepare to bring the bio-temporal chamber online. We'll begin in approximately five minutes. 
(Earlier) 
ANDREW: Grandma? Are you awake? I brought you a present. Grandma Kes? I finally finished your birthday present. Sorry it's late, but I wanted to get it right. 
KES: I don't know you. 
ANDREW: What do you mean? I'm Andrew, your grandson. 
KES: I don't know you. 
ANDREW: Doctor? Doctor Van Gogh? 
EMH: What is it? 
ANDREW: She doesn't recognise me. 
EMH: Kes? How are you feeling? 
KES: Where am I? What is this place? 
EMH: You're in Sickbay. Do you know who I am? 
KES: No. Yes. I've seen you before. 
EMH: Do you know my name? 
KES: The boy, he called you Doctor Van Gogh. 
EMH: That's right. 
KES: You said I was your finest friend. 
EMH: Well, I'm not sure I've ever said that, exactly, but, that doesn't mean it's not true. 
KES: How could I be your friend? I don't know you. 
EMH: Tell me what you do remember. 
KES: Er, people around me, crowded around me. You, the boy, a young girl. I was in a chamber. A bio-temporal chamber. 
EMH: Good. 
KES: I was inside it and you told someone to activate it. 
EMH: I'm afraid you're confused. I discussed the bio-temporal chamber with you, but we're not ready to put you inside it just yet. Can you recall anything else, besides those people you saw? Anything else about your life? 
KES: No. 
EMH: Go find the rest of your family. 
(Chakotay enters as Andrew runs out.) 
CHAKOTAY: Whoa, whoa, whoa. What's the big hurry? 
ANDREW: I'm sorry, Captain, I have to go. 
CHAKOTAY: What was that all about? 
EMH: I'm afraid Kes is getting worse, Captain. Her amnesia is near total. Fewer than one percent of her engrams remain intact. It's as if her memory were wiped clean. 
CHAKOTAY: Is it some sort of senility? 
EMH: Maybe. I've never treated a nine year old Ocampan before. For all I know, it's a perfectly normal part of their aging process. 
CHAKOTAY: It's hard to believe that she performed microsurgery on my elbow just a few weeks ago. 
EMH: A few weeks ago she was a healthy woman, but this morilogium comes on abruptly and then progresses with a rapidity I've never seen before. 
CHAKOTAY: How are you coming along with the bio-temporal chamber? 
EMH: As I told you, it's a completely revolutionary procedure. I have no idea if it'll work. Under normal circumstances I'd want to perform extensive tests on the apparatus, but we're losing her too fast. If I don't try it now, it may be too late. 
CHAKOTAY: If you really believe it will prolong her life? 
EMH: If we're lucky it may buy her another year. 
CHAKOTAY: I think you have the family's consent. You should go ahead and do it. 
KES: So cold. I'm cold. 
EMH: No wonder. Your temperature has dropped to fourteen point eight, almost two degrees below normal. 
CHAKOTAY: What does that mean? 
EMH: I'm not sure. 
CHAKOTAY? What? 
EMH: Her cells are in a state of bio-temporal flux. I don't understand how that could be happening before I put her in the chamber. 
KES: I'm cold. 
[Kes's quarters]
(Kes wakes up in her own bed. There is a picture next to it, of a younger her holding a baby. She gets up and sees her reflection in a mirror.) 
ANDREW [OC]: Look mom, I'm almost finished with Grandma's present. 
LINNIS [OC]: It's wonderful, sweetheart. I'm sure Grandma will think it was well worth the wait. 
ANDREW [OC]: I hope so. I still feel bad for not having it ready in time for her party. 
(Kes goes into the main living room.) 
LINNIS: Hello. How was your nap? 
KES: Andrew? 
ANDREW: Grandma, don't look. You'll spoil the surprise. 
LINNIS: Why don't you sit down. I'll get you some tea. 
KES: Where am I? 
LINNIS: In your quarters. 
KES: What quarters? 
LINNIS: Aboard Voyager. What's wrong? 
KES: I don't know who you are. But you, I know who you are. Tell me what's happening. How did I get here? 
LINNIS: Andrew, get your grandfather and father. Tell them to meet us in Sickbay. 
KES: Yes, Sickbay. I remember that place. I was just there. 
LINNIS: When? 
KES: Just a few minutes ago. Doctor Van Gogh asked me some questions. I couldn't remember anything. 
LINNIS: You haven't been to Sickbay for over a week, since you stopped working there. 
KES: Working? What kind of work? 
LINNIS: Don't you remember? You were one of the ship's doctors. I worked there with you. 
KES: Who are you? 
LINNIS: I'm your daughter, Linnis. 
[Corridor]
KES: But I don't remember you. 
LINNIS: Do you remember anything at all? 
KES: Just people crowded around me. Voices. The Doctor told everyone to leave and then he told someone else to activate the bio-temporal chamber. 
LINNIS: He's been working on that. He may have mentioned it to you. 
KES: And then I woke up and there was a boy, Andrew, standing over me with a present, calling me Grandma. 
LINNIS: Andrew hasn't finished your present yet. You just saw him still working on it in your quarters. 
KES: But he was there. The Doctor sent him to get my family, and I was cold and I woke up in that bed in the quarters, and 
LINNIS: Maybe you were dreaming. 
KES: I don't think so. 
LINNIS: Well, none of the things you remember before waking from your nap have happened. 
KES: How do you know? 
LINNIS: Listen to me, mother. You're confused right now and I'm sure that's very frightening, but you need to trust me. I'm your daughter and I love you. Now please, come with me. Come. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: I've been expecting this. 
LINNIS: The onset of morilogium. 
EMH: She's lost more than ninety eight percent of her memory engrams. 
KES: Morilogium? 
LINNIS: The final phase of the Ocampan lifespan, mother. 
KES: Are you saying that I'm dying? 
EMH: Not if l can help it. 
LINNIS: What do you mean? 
(Paris and Kim enter.) 
PARIS: Kes, it's me, Tom. Your husband. 
EMH: Tom, we're losing her. 
PARIS: How long? 
EMH: If we do nothing, a matter of weeks. But I'm working on something to extend her lifespan. It involves treating her with a bio-temporal field in order to push her cells back to an earlier stage of entropic decay. 
[Doctor's office]
EMH: It's highly experimental, but if it works, it might buy her some time. 
LINNIS: No. My mother's always accepted that she would only live nine years. If she's reaching the natural end of her life she wouldn't want extraordinary measures taken to extend it. Especially not in the state she's in now. 
PARIS: If the Doctor has a way to keep your mother with us, even for one more day, we have to let him try. 
LINNIS: We're not talking about a tested medical procedure here, we're talking about a radical experiment. 
KIM: Sweetheart, I understand how upsetting this is, but if it were you on that biobed, I'd feel just like Tom does. 
KES: Everyone listen to me, please. 
ANDREW: Yes, listen to her. 
LINNIS: Mother, tell us what you want. 
KES: I want to know what's going on here. Maybe the morilogium is causing my amnesia, but that doesn't explain how I seem to suddenly jump from Sickbay to my quarters, or how I remember being in a bio-temporal chamber. 
EMH: Kes, it's possible the morilogium is causing you to experience delusions. 
KES: No. They're not delusions. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: I want you to lie down. 
KES: No. 
ANDREW: Leave her alone. 
KIM: Your grandmother's very sick, son. 
ANDREW: Maybe, but she's not delusional. She's the smartest person I know. We should listen to her. 
KES: I'm cold. 
EMH: Her body temperature has dropped two point seven degrees. 
[Mess hall]
(Neelix, in Starfleet uniform, is bringing out a blue-covered cake.) 
ALL [singing]: For she's a jolly good fellow, for she's a jolly good fellow, for she's a jolly good fellow, which nobody can deny. 
NEELIX: Happy ninth, Kes. Go ahead, make a wish. Well, what are you waiting for? Blow out the candles. It's good to see that old lung is still working, Kessie. 
PARIS: Happy birthday, sweetheart. 
NEELIX: Well, you know, I haven't made one of these since, well, since I became security officer.
TUVOK: Perhaps you would care to relinquish your commission and return to the scene of your former triumphs. 
NEELIX: You keep working on that sense of humour, Commander Vulcan. You'll get it one of these days. Jibelian fudge, your favourite. Some of us ought to be watching our calories, but after all, it is a special occasion. 
KES: Andrew. 
ANDREW: I'm sorry I don't have a present for you, grandma. I've got an idea for something special I'm going to make, but I've been too busy with school work, I haven't had a chance to start it. 
KES: I think it'll be worth the wait. Come and talk to grandma for a minute, will you? 
ANDREW: Sure. 
KES: I'm going to ask you a few questions and I want you to think very carefully before you answer them, all right? 
ANDREW: I always think before I speak. You taught me that. 
KES: Where were you before you came to this party? 
ANDREW: At my physics lesson in Engineering. 
KES: And then you came directly here? 
ANDREW: No, I stopped at your quarters to get you. Don't you remember? 
EMH: Andrew, stop monopolising your grandmother's time. There are other people who'd like to wish her happy birthday, you know. 
ANDREW: She's all yours, Doctor. Excuse me. That cake looks great. 
EMH: It's amazing to think that you weren't even a year old when we first met. Not much older than Andrew. 
KES: Doctor, there's something wrong with me. 
EMH: What is it? 
KES: Promise to hear me out and not assume I'm delusional. 
EMH: Why do you think I'd ever make such an assumption? 
KES: Promise! 
EMH: Of course. 
KES: I've lost all but a few of my memories, and the memories I do have don't coincide with anyone else's. 
EMH: Can you be more specific? 
KES: Well, I was in Sickbay, and you and a woman, my daughter, were arguing about prolonging my life. And then I suddenly appeared in my quarters and then I simply appeared here. 
EMH: As far as I know, none of that happened. Is it possible you were dreaming? 
KES: No. I was awake, I'm sure of it. But nobody else remembers the things I do. 
EMH: I hate to say this, but it's possible these strange experiences you're having are related to the onset of the morilogium. 
KES: You talked about that. You wanted to put me in a bio-temporal chamber to stop my aging process. 
EMH: How could you possibly know about that? 
KES: Because you told me. 
EMH: I only came up with the idea for the bio-temporal chamber this morning. I was going to tell you about it today, here at the party, as a sort of birthday surprise. 
KES: If that were true, then how could I already know about it. 
EMH: I don't know, but we'd better get you to Sickbay and find out. 
[Sickbay]
(Paris and Chakotay are also there.) 
EMH: She appears to have lost more than ninety five percent of her memory engrams. 
PARIS: Is that symptomatic of the morilogium? 
EMH: I don't know. I have no basis for comparison. No other Ocampans on board. 
PARIS: Don't worry, we'll get to the bottom of this. 
KES: I do have memories, they just don't coincide with anyone else's. First Andrew gave me a belated birthday present, then he said he was working on the present, and now he just apologised for not starting it yet. 
PARIS: It's almost as if you're experiencing events in reverse. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe there's some kind of time paradox at work. 
EMH: There is another possibility. Given that Kes has knowledge of a treatment I have not yet devised, it's possible she's developed some sort of precognition. 
KES: Are you saying I can see into the future? 
PARIS: Well, you've demonstrated some pretty extraordinary mental powers over the years. Telepathy, telekinesis. 
EMH: And precognition wouldn't be unprecedented. Some species, including the Yattho of the Beta quadrant, have been known to predict future events with uncanny accuracy. 
CHAKOTAY: See if you can confirm this theory about precognition. In the meantime, Tom and I will begin scanning for temporal anomalies. 
PARIS: We'll do everything we can to help you. 
KES: I'd like to do something to help myself. 
CHAKOTAY: What did you have in mind? 
KES: Well I seem to have lived quite a full life on this ship. Maybe if I have a look in my medical files, or check other record of my activities, I might be able to fill in some of the blanks. 
EMH: Well you may have lost your memories, but you certainly haven't lost your determination. 
(Or the knowledge of how to use the ship's computers.) 
[Kes's quarters]
(There are lots of PADDs scattered about.) 
PARIS: Hi. 
KES: Oh, hello. 
PARIS: How's it coming? 
KES: I've had a busy life. It's hard to know where to start. How about you? 
PARIS: Well, we've tried every kind of temporal scan Harry could think of, but we still haven't been able to find anything to explain what's been happening to you. Your initial physical exam. I remember when you came on board. I had a crush on you right from the beginning. I tried to hide it, but Neelix sensed it and boy, was he ever jealous. 
KES: Neelix? 
PARIS: You don't remember? You and he were involved for quite a while. One of your prenatal exams. We listened to Linnis' heartbeat. That was quite a day. 
KES: What about this. It says I got some kind of radiation poisoning on stardate 50973. 
PARIS: That was the beginning of the Year of Hell. 
KES: Year of Hell? 
PARIS: That's what some of us call it now. We were under virtually constant attack by a race called the Krenim. The ship almost didn't make it. The Doctor was offline for months, and we lost a lot of good people. Captain Janeway, Joe Carey, B'Elanna. 
KES: B'Elanna? 
PARIS: I keep forgetting that you don't remember any of them. B'Elanna was someone who was very special to me. When she died, I felt like I wanted to die too, but you, you helped me through it. 
(Kes recoils from his caress.) 
PARIS: I'm sorry. 
KES: No. No, it's my fault. You haven't done anything wrong. It's just 
PARIS: You don't remember any of our life together? Well, that's all right. I've got enough feelings for both of us. 
KES: Maybe the feelings I had for you will come back. 
PARIS: You were asking about the radiation poisoning. A lot of us were exposed. During the first Krenim attack one of the chroniton torpedo fragments leaked radiation into the ship. 
KES: Chroniton torpedoes? 
PARIS: They were able to penetrate our shields because their torpedoes were in a constant state of temporal flux. Wait a minute. Think we may be onto something. We'd better go talk to the Doctor. Come on. 
[Corridor]
KES: If I was infected with these chroniton particles, then there might be a connection to what's happening to me now. 
PARIS: Exactly. 
KES: Maybe we should try scanning for residual 
[Kes's quarters - 2378]
(A younger, long-haired Kes is holding a baby.) 
KIM: Say cheese! 
(Kim takes the photograph that was by her bedside.) 
LINNIS: I think he's got your nose, Mother. 
KIM: So how does it feel to be a grandfather? 
PARIS: A lot better than it does to have you for a son-in-law. 
KES: What's the date? 
PARIS: The date? 
KES: Yes, the stardate. 
KIM: It's 56947. Why? 
KES: Over six months. 
LINNIS: Mother, what's going on? 
KES: Tom, we have to talk to the Doctor. Come on. 
[Doctor's office]
KES: As far as I can tell I've jumped backwards a total of five times so far. 
EMH: Is there any discernable pattern to these jumps? 
KES: No, they're apparently random. One time it seemed to span for a few weeks, and the last was half a year. Each time I arrive I seem to exist in temporal synch with the rest of you for a while, but before I can make anyone understand what's happening I find myself in am earlier time of my life. And just before it happens I seem to experience a sudden drop in body temperature. 
EMH: Hmm. Now this could explain a thing or two. 
KES: What is it? 
EMH: I'm detecting high level chroniton radiation in your cells. 
KES: So I was right. There is a connection. 
PARIS: But Kes was inoculated along with the rest of the crew over three years ago. 
EMH: Yes. However, everyone was left with trace amounts of the radiation in their bodies. For some reason, those residual chronitons have reactivated in Kes. 
PARIS: Why? 
KES: The bio-temporal chamber. 
EMH: My thinking exactly. 
PARIS: Would you two mind explaining? 
EMH: It's really quite obvious, Lieutenant. Your wife is travelling backward through time. 
[Briefing room]
(Chakotay and Tuvok are there, too.) 
KES: It's as though I came into existence at the moment of my own death, without any memories. I've been living my life backwards ever since, jumping progressively to earlier moments in my life. accumulating memories and experiences as I go. Your past has become my future. 
CHAKOTAY: Doctor, any theory about what's causing this? 
EMH: In approximately six months, I will apparently expose Kes to some type of bio-temporal field in a highly experimental but nonetheless brilliant attempt to stop her aging process. 
TUVOK: And it's this attempt which leads to Kes's current predicament? 
EMH: What I will apparently fail to realise is that the bio-temporal field is going to reactivate the dormant chroniton particles in her cells, bringing Kes out of temporal sync with the rest of us. 
CHAKOTAY: Is there any way to stop Kes from continuing these jumps? 
EMH: Yes. Purge her completely of the chroniton poisoning. 
KIM: To do that we'd need to know the precise temporal variance of the specific torpedo which contaminated the ship. 
TUVOK: Tactical sensors were not functioning at the time. There is no data regarding the torpedo in question. 
PARIS: Let me get one thing straight, Doc. Is it possible if this keeps happening to Kes that she might actually jump back into a time before she knew any of us? 
EMH: Worse than that, Mister Paris. It's possible she may eventually jump back to a time before she even existed. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain's log, stardate 55836.2. Kes has remained in temporal sync with us for two days now, but since we don't know when she may jump again, we can't afford to rest until we've found some way to help her. 
[Medical laboratory]
LINNIS: I'm going to try running a hypothalamic scan. Maybe we can establish a pattern to the drops in your body temperature. 
KES: You're very good at this, aren't you. 
LINNIS: I had a very good teacher. 
KES: Doctor Van Gogh? 
LINNIS: You. 
KES: I'm sorry. All this must be taking you away from your baby just now. You must be wanting to spend every second with him. 
LINNIS: Actually I feel a little awkward around him sometimes. Harry's always singing to him and playing with him, but, well, I seem to be much more comfortable with a molecular scanner than I am with a diaper. 
KES: Now, Linnis, I don't think it's 
EMH: Kes, I may have found a way to prevent your next jump. I've erected a containment field that may keep you here. It's going to require your confinement in Sickbay. 
LINNIS: I'll keep working here. 
KES: Linnis, you must be a good mother. I happen to know that Andrew grows up to be a wonderful child. 
[Sickbay]
(Kes is pacing the surgical alcove.) 
KES: Hello, Tom. 
PARIS: I thought maybe you could use some company. 
KES: I feel like I'm in a cage. Doctor Van Gogh says 
PARIS: Doctor Van Gogh? I thought you settled on Mozart. 
EMH: Evidently my interest in the great figures of art and culture will be an ongoing process. 
PARIS: Well, Vincent, how about letting me inside this thing? 
EMH: I'm afraid that wouldn't be advisable. 
(The EMH leaves them alone.) 
PARIS: Okay then, how about another installment of Tom and Kes, the Early Years? 
KES: I'd enjoy that. 
PARIS: Well, there was our wedding reception. Harry was my best man. He got so nervous when he stood up to give the toast that he spilt champagne all over my dress uniform. 
KES: What is it? 
PARIS: At the time, I thought that was the happiest day of my life, but every day it just got better and better. 
KES: Oh, it means so much to have you here now. 
(Linnis enters.) 
LINNIS: I think I may have found something. 
EMH: What is it. 
LINNIS: Well, I was studying the effects of the chronitons on other crew members and I
(An alarm beeps.) 
PARIS: What's that? 
EMH: Kes' temperature has dropped one point nine degrees. Linnis, monitor the containment field. I'm going to try to elevate her temperature. 
(The EMH goes through the forcefield and administers a hypo.) 
EMH: Her temperature's still dropping. 
LINNIS: We're losing containment. 
EMH: Increase the field amplitude. 
PARIS: Kes? 
LINNIS: It's not working. 
(Kes becomes transparent.) 
EMH: We're losing her. Set field polarisation to maximum. 
(Kes and Paris reach out to each other.) 
PARIS: Do something! 
[Shuttlecraft - 2374]
(Kes is standing up, holding onto a crossmember and panting hard.) 
PARIS: The sac is opening. 
KES: What's happening? 
PARIS: What do you mean, what's happening? You're having a baby. Hold still. 
KES: Where am I? 
PARIS: Exactly where I told you not to be, on a shuttlecraft. 
KES: I have to see the Doctor. 
PARIS: Well, that'd be nice if he were still around. I told you you were in no condition to come on a supply mission, but did you listen to me? I can see the toes, it's coming. Yes! It's a girl! Ah, she's beautiful. 
KES: Yes, she is. 
PARIS: Yes, just like her mother. 
KES: Tom, listen. 
PARIS: I love you, Kes. 
KES: We need to talk. 
(Beep!) 
PARIS: Just a minute. 
KES: What is it? 
PARIS: Voyager's under attack. 
[Corridor]
NEELIX: Congratulations. 
PARIS: Thanks, but it looks like the celebration'll have to wait. 
NEELIX: I'll get Kes and the baby to the Mess hall. Captain Chakotay wants you to go to the weapons array and modulate the targeting scanners to a parametric frequency. He's going to try to knock out the chroniton torpedo launchers before they're fired. 
KES: Chroniton torpedoes. The Year of Hell. 
PARIS: What? 
KES: You told me that the crew referred to this time as the Year of Hell. 
PARIS: When did I tell you that? 
KES: It's a long story. 
PARIS: You'll have to tell me later. I've got to get to the weapons array. Neelix, get her to lie down, will you? 
KES: Neelix, listen very carefully. There's something very important I have to tell you. 
[Mess hall]
(The mess hall is an overflow ward.) 
PARIS: Neelix told us what's been happening to you, Kes. How are you holding up? 
KES: We're both fine. 
CHAKOTAY: That's quite a story. 
KES: Just before the last jump we were close to a solution. The Doctor was working on 
PARIS: The Doctor? 
CHAKOTAY: Well it's good to know we'll eventually get him back online. 
PARIS: Eventually may be too late. We've got to help Kes now. 
KES: We discovered that what's been happening to me is related to the chroniton poisoning I suffered during a Krenim attack. We have to determine the exact temporal variance of the torpedo, so that 
CHAKOTAY: The main computer's been offline for weeks. Even if the sensor logs contain that information, we can't access them. 
KES: You have to put me in the bio-temporal containment field. I know it didn't work last time, but with a few modifications 
CHAKOTAY: We've only got life support on three out of fourteen decks, and we've had to divert all remaining power to knock out the Krenim's torpedo launchers. We don't even have a Sickbay anymore, much less the resources to create a bio-containment field. I'm sorry. 
PARIS: We've got to do something to help her. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm open to suggestions. 
KES: I'm cold. 
PARIS: I'll get you a blanket. 
KES: No, you don't understand, I'm about, I'm about 
[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
KES: Tom. 
PARIS: Hey, Kes, some party, huh? 
KES: I have to talk to you. 
TORRES: Tom, I'm sorry I'm late. 
(Paris greets Torres with a kiss.) 
KES: You must be B'Elanna. 
TORRES: Well, the last time I checked. 
PARIS: Something wrong? 
KES: Actually, there is something wrong. 
(Whumph!) 
JANEWAY [OC]: Red alert. All hands to battle stations. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Tuvok, fire phasers. 
TUVOK: Acknowledged. 
CHAKOTAY: Who the hell are they? 
KES: They're called the Krenim. 
JANEWAY: How do you know that? 
KES: Captain Janeway? 
JANEWAY: What is it, Kes? What do you know about them? 
TUVOK: Shields down to thirty nine percent, Captain. 
CHAKOTAY: I don't understand how these torpedoes are ripping right through our shields. 
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres, Mister Paris. B'Elanna, can we reroute power to the forward shields? 
TORRES: Already trying. 
KES: Captain, these torpedoes are chroniton based. They're passing through our shields because they're in a state of temporal flux. 
(Another torpedo hits Voyager, and the Engineering console explodes, sending Janeway and Torres flying.) 
KES: They're dead. 
PARIS: B'Elanna! 
KIM: Hull breach on deck seven. We're losing life support. 
CHAKOTAY: Evacuate the deck. Tom, I need you at the conn. 
PARIS: Aye, sir. 
TUVOK: Commander, they're arming their torpedo launchers again. We cannot sustain another direct hit. 
CHAKOTAY: Kes, you seem to know something about these weapons. Do you have any idea how we can stop them? 
KES: I'm not sure, but I think it has something to do with remodulating the targeting scanners. 
KIM: That could work. If we remodulate the scanners to a parametric frequency we might be able to destroy the torpedo launchers before they fire. 
CHAKOTAY: Mister Tuvok, you heard the man. Tom, bring us about. 
TUVOK: Ready, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: Fire! 
(The attacking ship goes KaBOOM!) 
[Mess hall]
(A makeshift ward.) 
CHAKOTAY: Do you have a casualty report? 
KIM: Including Captain Janeway and B'Elanna, we lost eleven people. 
CHAKOTAY: What about the ship? 
KIM: Starboard shield generators and warp drive are offline, and power is down on decks four through twelve. 
CHAKOTAY: Make deck five your priority. We've got to get Sickbay up and running again. 
KIM: Aye, sir. 
CHAKOTAY: Kes, as far as what you say is happening to you 
KES: I understand my condition can't be a priority now. 
CHAKOTAY: Tom, I'm going to need you to stay here and treat these people. When this is over, we're all going to have a lot of grieving to do. 
KES: How are you doing? Tom, I know it doesn't seem possible now, but you're going to be all right. 
PARIS: I wish I could believe you. 
KES: You can. 
PARIS: Thanks. 
NEELIX: Kes, we've got radiation leakage coming from one of the Krenim torpedo fragments. People are starting to complain of nausea. 
KES: Chroniton radiation. This is it. I'm infected. Where's the radiation coming from? 
NEELIX: It's lodged in a Jefferies tube on deck eleven, section two. 
KES: I've got to get down there. 
NEELIX: You can't. The entire deck is sealed off. 
KES: I have to find the exact temporal variance of that torpedo. 
NEELIX: You can't go near that thing. You'll be burnt to a crisp. 
KES: I know what I'm doing. You stay here and help Tom, all right? 
NEELIX: Yes, but 
(Kes goes into the Jefferies tubes and forces her way into the breached section. The torpedo is pulsing and giving off a gas. She starts her tricorder. Finally it comes up with a number - Temporal Variance 1.47. Kes memorises it before she collapses.) 
[Sickbay - 2373]
EMH: Kes, how are you coming with those analgesic compounds? 
KES: Doctor, you've lost your hair. 
EMH: I beg your pardon? 
KES: It's a long story. The important thing is, the temporal variance of the chroniton torpedo was one point four seven microseconds. 
[Briefing room]
KES: As far as I can determine, I've jumped a total of six years into my past. 
TUVOK: Do you have any theory as to the cause of these jumps? 
EMH: According to Kes, she and the rest of the crew will be infected by chroniton radiation in approximately eleven months from now. Everyone will be inoculated and the effects will appear to vanish. However, some five years later, when I attempt an experimental and, I might add, ingenious procedure to extend her lifespan, the bio-temporal field I expose her to will trigger dormant chroniton particles, taking Kes out of temporal sync and causing her to begin her backward journey through time. 
JANEWAY: In all my years in Starfleet I've never come across a phenomenon quite like this. 
EMH: Kes has been able to provide us with the precise temporal variance of the torpedo which infected her. 
TORRES: Since Kes is moving backward in time, she's already been infected by the radiation poisoning. If we can set up a bio-temporal chamber and expose her to a precisely modulated field of anti-chroniton particles, we feel this may purge her system and bring her back into temporal sync with there rest of us. 
JANEWAY: Well, we'd better get moving. For all we know, Kes's next jump will take her back to a time when we're not here to help her. 
KES: Captain, there's something else I have to tell you. In about six months you're going to enter a region of space controlled by a race called the Krenim. You must avoid them at all costs. 
JANEWAY: Tell me more. 
[Sickbay]
TORRES: I'm ready to bring the chamber online. 
JANEWAY: Synaptic relays are operational. How are her vital signs? 
EMH: Pulse normal, body temperature fourteen degrees, chroniton level at seventy nine roentgens. Go ahead and activate the chamber, Lieutenant. Increase the bio-temporal field stress. 
TORRES: Bringing field stress to twenty five kilodynes. 
EMH: Alright, let's try the anti-chronitons. 
TORRES: Whenever you're ready, Doc. 
EMH: Initiating anti-chroniton burst, ten MEVs, five second pulse. Pulse steady, body temperature at fourteen point two degrees, and rising. 
JANEWAY: What about her chroniton count? 
EMH: Chroniton count is seventy one roentgens and dropping. 
JANEWAY: It's working. 
EMH: Lieutenant Torres, increase the field strength to thirty kilodynes. 
TORRES: Right. 
EMH: Initiating another burst. Fifteen MEVs, five second pulse. Body temperature fourteen point nine degrees, chroniton count sixty eight roentgens, sixty, fifty seven, fifty two. 
[Ready room - 2371]
NEELIX: You need a cook. You haven't lived until you've tasted my angla'bosque. It will be my job to anticipate your needs before you know you have them. 
KES: Oh, not again. 
NEELIX: And I anticipate your first need will be me. 
KES: I'm sorry. I know this is going to sound strange to you both, but I don't belong here. 
NEELIX: But we discussed this. 
KES: You don't understand, I'm travelling backwards in time, getting younger. We have to lower my chroniton levels. You've got to get me into the bio-temporal chamber right away. 
NEELIX: I, I, I'm sorry Captain. I didn't quite anticipate this. 
KES: Listen to me, please. 
NEELIX: Sweeting, try to calm down. I assure you, Captain, she's never behaved this way before. 
JANEWAY: Hold on a minute, Mister Neelix. Kes, why don't you start over, slowly. 
KES: It begins about eight years in the future, when I'm about to die. No! 
[Ocampa - 2370]
BENAREN: Time for dinner. What's wrong, Kes? 
YOUNG KES: Who are you? What is this place? 
BENAREN: We don't have time to play our guessing game right now, Kes. You know how your mother gets when we're late to the table. 
YOUNG KES: You're my father. 
BENAREN: That's right, and you're my favourite daughter, but don't tell anyone. 
YOUNG KES: Listen to me, something terrible's been happening to me. 
BENAREN: What's wrong? 
YOUNG KES: There might not be much time so I've got to explain this quickly. Please try to believe me. I've been living aboard a starship called Voyager. 
BENAREN: A starship. I see. So now it's not only the surface you're dreaming about exploring. 
YOUNG KES: Listen to me. I did go to the surface, or rather, I will go there, and the people aboard the ship are going to rescue me from the Kazon and take me with them. 
BENAREN: We can talk about your adventures after dinner. 
YOUNG KES: No, there's no time. You've got to believe me. One moment I was this old woman and then, and then 
BENAREN: Kes, we're late. 
YOUNG KES: Father, please. 
[Ocampa Medical Centre]
BENAREN: I can see the toes! Keep going, Martis. It's a girl. 
MARTIS: Oh, Kes. 
(Then back into the womb, and reversing still to a embryo then a blastocyte, then nothing. Pause, and time starts going forward again to the birth.) 
BENAREN: It's a girl. 
MARTIS: Oh, she's so, she's so beautiful. Kes. I think one day she'll see the sun. 
[Sickbay - 2373]
EMH: Fifty one roentgens, forty six, thirty four. Another anti-chroniton burst, twenty MEVs. 
TORRES: Right. 
EMH: Levels are continuing to drop. Pulse normal, body temperature steady at sixteen point three degrees, chroniton levels are at zero roentgens. Welcome back, Kes. 
KES: What's the date? How old am I? 
EMH: The same age you were when we put you into the bio-temporal chamber. A healthy three years and two months. And due to an extraordinary display of medical heroics, you're back in temporal sync with the rest of us. 
[Holodeck - Paxau resort]
NEELIX: So, I'm going to become a security officer. How about that? 
TUVOK: Fortunately, Mister Neelix, what Kes has been describing is merely one possible future. On each occasion that she jumped to a previous time, her subsequent actions most likely altered the future from that moment on. 
NEELIX: Good point, Tuvok. Maybe I'll turn out to be Chief Security Officer. 
(Neelix clinks champagne glasses with Chakotay.) 
KIM: So, Kes, have you regained all your memories of the past? 
KES: I remember last month's supply of replicator rations that you borrowed, that you owe me, if that's what you're asking. 
KIM: Don't worry, I haven't forgotten. 
EMH: I realise it's only hypothetical, but still I'd be curious to know what sorts of medical breakthroughs I'm going to make in this possible future. 
KES: It's not as if I've seen everything that's going to happen over the next six years. I only remember short periods I experienced between jumps. 
TORRES: Even so, I bet you found out some pretty interesting things. 
PARIS: Yeah, Kes. Tell us what you know. 
CHAKOTAY: Careful, Tom. You may find out that you leave Voyager only to join a monastery. 
KIM: Hey, give him a little credit. I bet he gets married and has a family. 
PARIS: Thank you. 
KIM: Don't mention it. 
TORRES: Are you telling? 
KES: Well, as Tuvok said, I've only seen pieces of one possible future. 
PARIS: You know what? Don't tell me. I don't want to know. I like a little mystery in my life. 
JANEWAY: Tom's right. I think we should all leave the future to the future. 
TUVOK: While I agree it would not be wise for Kes to make all of her experiences public, a report on anything she knows about these Krenim might be useful. 
KES: I'll get started right away. 
JANEWAY: Hang on a minute. I didn't mean now. Stay and enjoy your party. 
KES: If there's one thing that this experience has taught me, Captain, it's that there's no time like the present. 

