Episode Number: 706
The Voyager Transcripts - Flesh and Blood
Flesh and Blood
Stardate: Unknown / 54337.5
Original Airdate: 29 November 2000
[Woodland]
(Two Hirogen with honking big guns are hiding behind a tree trunk One is an older male, one young. Father and son perhaps?.)
HIROGEN 1: How many are there? 
HIROGEN 2: They've deflected our scans. 
HIROGEN 1: You must learn to rely on instinct. There are four of them, Perhaps five. 
(They move on slowly. Something runs across the path behind them and the young hunter fires his gun, missing.) 
HIROGEN 1: No! You'll lead them right to us. 
HIROGEN 2: Let them come. 
HIROGEN 1: Never let your prey control the hunt. There. Ten metres. 
(Then another noise.)
HIROGEN 2: They're behind us now. 
(They continue down to a small lake. The water is calm and reflective. Repeated weapons fire comes out of the water, hitting the Hirogen and killing them. Then four figures emerge from below the surface - in Starfleet uniforms.) 
[Medical lab]
CHAKOTAY: You wanted to see me? 
EMH: I'd like to request a temporary leave of absence. You remember the Ovions? 
CHAKOTAY: The hexapods. 
EMH: They just asked me to speak at a Symposium on spaceborne pathogens. There are going to be physicians from all over the Quadrant. This is a rare opportunity for me. And for the rest of the crew. 
CHAKOTAY: How's that? 
EMH: I'd be representing Voyager. Putting our best foot forward, so to speak. And, needless to say hexapods are more likely to know a best foot when they see one. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry, Doctor. It's just not practical. 
EMH: I seem to recall Lieutenant Torres participating in Boray Conference on transwarp theory a few months back. 
CHAKOTAY: That was different. 
EMH: How? 
CHAKOTAY: We were there. The Ovion system is two weeks behind us. I can't ask the captain to turn the ship around. 
EMH: I could take a shuttle. 
CHAKOTAY: You could also write a paper and submit it on subspace. 
EMH: That's hardly an effective means of making a presentation. 
CHAKOTAY: Say you do take a shuttle. Would you expect us to sit here and wait for you to get back? 
EMH: There must be some fascinating anomaly nearby for the crew to explore. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead. 
JANEWAY [OC]: We just received a distress call on an Hirogen frequency. 
CHAKOTAY: We haven't heard from them in a while. 
JANEWAY [OC]: I've altered course. I'd like you on the bridge. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm on my way. 
EMH: Perhaps the Hirogen will keep you occupied long enough for me to attend the Symposium. 
(Chakotay leaves.) 
EMH: You can't blame a hologram for trying. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Approaching the coordinates. 
JANEWAY: Take us out of warp. Raise shields and stand by weapons. 
KIM: I've got them. Six thousand kilometres off starboard. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
(It looks like a space station.)
CHAKOTAY: Monotanium hull plating. Tylium based power. It's Hirogen. 
KIM: They're not responding to hails. 
CHAKOTAY: Life signs? 
KIM: I'm getting a lot of strange readings. Any one of them could be a life form. 
JANEWAY: Any Hirogen ships in the vicinity? 
PARIS: No, ma'am. 
CHAKOTAY: It might be a trap. 
JANEWAY: The Hirogen aren't the type to play possum. Move us within transporter range. Chakotay, take an away team. 
[Forest]
(Chakotay, Paris, Seven, Tuvok and a security guard beam down.)
CHAKOTAY: Let's break into teams. Seven. 
(She and Chakotay go one way, the remaining three the other.;Tuvok finds an Hirogen corpse hidden under a pile of leaves.) 
PARIS: Particle weapons. 
TUVOK: These burns are consistent with a type-three phaser. 
(Down by the lake, Seven finds a weapon wedged in a tree. It has blood on it.)
SEVEN: Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: A bat'leth. 
SEVEN: What's a Klingon weapon doing in the Delta Quadrant? 
CHAKOTAY: The blood's Hirogen. Chakotay to Tuvok and Paris. 
PARIS [OC]: Go ahead. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm reading an Hirogen lifesign. It could be wounded. 
PARIS [OC]: We're right behind you. 
(Weapons fire hits a nearby rock.)
DONIK: Stay away! 
CHAKOTAY: Hold your fire! 
(He doesn't. Chakotay signals Tuvok and Paris to go around.)
CHAKOTAY: We're here to help you. 
DONIK: I said stay away! 
(The weapons fire is making so much noise that the Hunter does not hear Tuvok sneak up behind. He neck-pinches him.) 
PARIS: He's lost a lot of blood. I need to get him back to the ship. Paris to Sickbay, two to beam up. 
EMH: Acknowledged. 
SEVEN: Commander. 
(Seven uncovers a console.)
TUVOK: Replicated Starfleet technology. 
SEVEN: It's some kind of holodeck interface. 
TUVOK: There appear to be holo-emitters installed throughout the facility. 
SEVEN: This environment is simulated. 
CHAKOTAY: Why didn't our tricorders detect it? 
TUVOK: I am not certain. 
CHAKOTAY: Can you shut down the emitters? 
SEVEN: I'll try. 
(She succeeds. The holodeck floor is littered with Hirogen corpses.) 
[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: Evidently, they made a few modifications. All of our preliminary scans indicated the environment was real. 
JANEWAY: Environments that fool sensors. No safety protocols. How many bodies? 
CHAKOTAY Forty-three. Most of them were killed by facsimiles of Alpha quadrant weapons. Romulan disrupters, Klingon bat'leths. 
JANEWAY: Starfleet phasers? 
CHAKOTAY: I think we'll find they all came from the holotechnology we gave the Hirogen three years ago. 
JANEWAY: They obviously missed the point. We gave them that technology so they could hunt holographic prey, not get themselves killed. 
[Sickbay]
EMH:: Try to remain calm. 
DONIK: Get away from me! 
(He runs into the surgical bay forcefield and is knocked down.) 
CHAKOTAY: Can you sedate him? 
EMH: He won't let me get close enough. 
JANEWAY: We're not your enemies. 
DONIK: You're holograms. This is a simulation. 
JANEWAY: I assure you, we're quite real. 
(Donik throws a tray through the EMH.)
DONIK: Liar. 
JANEWAY: Doctor, deactivate yourself. 
EMH: I can't treat the patient if I'm offline. 
JANEWAY: No one can treat him if he's terrified. 
EMH: Computer, deactivate EMH. 
CHAKOTAY: Our doctor's a hologram, we're not. 
DONIK: Why should I believe you? 
JANEWAY: I'm afraid you're going to have to. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway. You're aboard my vessel. 
DONIK: Janeway. This is Voyager? 
CHAKOTAY: Looks like our reputation preceded us. 
DONIK: You're the ones who gave us the technology to simulate our hunts. Where are the rest of my people? 
CHAKOTAY: You were the only one we found alive. 
JANEWAY: This place you were in. It's some kind of holodeck. 
DONIK: A training facility, where young Hirogen learn the skills of the hunt. 
CHAKOTAY: You're a student. 
DONIK: A technician. 
JANEWAY: Computer, deactivate forcefield. Can you tell us what happened? 
DONIK: There were too many of them. 
CHAKOTAY: Who? 
DONIK: The holograms. They were malfunctioning. I tried to shut them down but they got control of the system and, and they deactivated the safety protocols. 
TUVOK [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway. 
JANEWAY: Go ahead. 
TUVOK [OC]: We're picking up a Hirogen ship. It's on an intercept course. 
[Bridge]
(The Hirogen ship attacks the larger Voyager.)
JANEWAY: Hail them. 
KIM: I've tried. They're not responding. 
TUVOK: Shields at sixty eight percent. Should I return fire? 
JANEWAY: Not yet. Open a channel. This is Captain Kathryn Janeway. We're not here to fight you. 
TUVOK: Shields at fifty two percent. 
JANEWAY: Stand down, or we will retaliate. 
CHAKOTAY: I don't think they're getting the message. 
JANEWAY: Then let's try some nonverbal communication. Tom, evasive pattern beta six. Tuvok, disable their weapons. 
TUVOK: Their phaser banks have been disabled. 
JANEWAY: Let's see if that makes them a little more talkative. Harry? 
KIM: They're responding. 
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: This facility belongs to the Hirogen. Leave the area immediately. 
JANEWAY: We are here in response to a distress call. 
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: So are we, and we don't need your assistance. 
JANEWAY: All but one of your people are dead. 
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: Where's the survivor? 
JANEWAY: Recovering in our Sickbay. 
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: Return him, now. 
JANEWAY: He's in no condition to be transported. If you want to see him, you'll have to come here. 
[Sickbay]
DONIK: I tried to shut down the generator, but I 
ALPHA: But what? 
DONIK: There were too many of them. I masked my lifesigns so they couldn't detect me. 
ALPHA: You mean you hid while hunters fought and died. 
BETA: No doubt he found the nearest hole and crawled into it. 
DONIK: I'm not a hunter. 
ALPHA: It was your responsibility to maintain those systems. 
BETA: Forty three Hirogen died because of your incompetence and cowardice. 
JANEWAY: What about the holograms? Were they deleted? 
DONIK: They transferred their programmes. 
JANEWAY: Where? 
DONIK: A vessel equipped with holo-emitters. They're gone. 
[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: Perhaps you should've considered the risks before you programmed holograms that could commandeer a vessel. 
BETA: Capable prey make the hunt more challenging. 
SEVEN: I'm detecting residual engine emissions but no sign of the vessel itself. 
JANEWAY: Well, I'm sure they're out of sensor range by now. 
ALPHA: No. They're close. Elevated plasma readings in grid two nine five. They're creating a scattering field to mask their ship. You can find them by scanning for polarised EM signatures.
(Seven finds the ship.)
ALPHA: Prepare for the hunt. 
JANEWAY: I'd like to join you. 
BETA: You did enough damage giving us defective technology to begin with. 
JANEWAY: You have a problem. We can help you solve it. We have more experience with holograms than you do. 
ALPHA: Two hunting vessels are better than one. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. 
(Tuvok and Chakotay enter.)
CHAKOTAY: The Hirogen are ready to get underway. 
JANEWAY: The sooner the better. Why do I get the feeling you're about to gang up on me? 
CHAKOTAY: You first. 
TUVOK: We have reservations about an alliance with the hunters. 
JANEWAY: I'm listening. 
TUVOK: The Hirogen have been performing covert scans of Voyager. They are obviously trying to determine the status of our shields and weapons. 
JANEWAY: I'd be surprised if you haven't run a few scans of your own. Standard procedure. They don't trust us, we don't trust them. Coffee, black. 
CHAKOTAY: Trust isn't the issue. We're getting involved in a situation that's not our responsibility. 
JANEWAY: Oh, I'd say we're at least partly to blame. That was Starfleet technology that killed those hunters. 
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing inherently violent about holodeck technology. It's what the Hirogen did with it that got them killed. 
JANEWAY: How many times have we shared replicators to help people feed and clothe themselves? 
CHAKOTAY: Trading technology is part of our life in the Delta Quadrant. 
TUVOK:: It has been necessary for our survival. 
JANEWAY: Maybe we should have been a little more careful about what we traded and who we traded with. Replicators make weapons just as easily as they do food. 
CHAKOTAY: We can't undo what's been done. 
JANEWAY: Maybe not. But we can help shut these holograms down before anyone else gets hurt. Now, if there are no more objections, I'd like to get underway. 
[Bridge]
KIM: I've got the holograms' ship on sensors. 
JANEWAY: Let's see it. 
CHAKOTAY: Looks like they've taken some damage. 
PARIS: The Hirogen are closing on the holograms' vessel. 
JANEWAY: Hail them. I suggest we keep our distance until we can determine their weapons status. 
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: It's time for the kill. 
JANEWAY: You know as well as I do that a wounded animal can be dangerous. 
ALPHA [on viewscreen]: We won't be denied our prey. 
TUVOK: I'm not detecting any weapons, Captain. 
JANEWAY: They're offline? 
TUVOK: No, they're non-existent. 
KIM: That's not the only thing that's non-existent. According to sensors, there's no warp core, no impulse engines. 
JANEWAY: It's a decoy. Hirogen vessel, stand down. 
(The hologram ship turns into a bomb which then explodes, impacting the Hirogen vessel.) 
JANEWAY: Report? 
TUVOK: They've suffered multiple hull breaches. Their life support is failing. 
JANEWAY: Drop shields. Transport all survivors to Sickbay. 
CHAKOTAY: Bridge to the Doctor. We have casualties. 
EMH [OC]: Acknowledged. 
JANEWAY: Tom, give him a hand. 
TUVOK: Another Hirogen ship has just dropped out of warp. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm not reading any lifesigns on this one. 
JANEWAY: Holograms. Hail them. 
KIM: No response. They're charging weapons. 
(Bang! go two consoles.)
TUVOK: Reactivating shields.;
CHAKOTAY: No. We haven't finished transporting the Hirogen. 
JANEWAY: Chakotay's right. Return fire. 
[Sickbay]
(Paris and three medics help the incoming Hirogen to biobeds.)
EMH: My programme is destabilising. 
[Bridge]
KIM: The holograms are tapping into the Sickbay emitters. They're trying to transfer the Doctor's programme off the ship. 
JANEWAY: Bridge to Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]
; 
JANEWAY [OC]: Doctor, download your programme into the mobile emitter now. 
(Paris throws the emitter to the EMH, who disappears before he can catch it.)
PARIS: We've lost him. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Get him back. 
KIM: They've gone to warp. 
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course. 
CHAKOTAY: They've masked their signature. They're gone. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
(A Borg watches the EMH stutter as he appears. A Bajoran gives the orders.)
IDEN: Align his matrix, and install it into the database. Welcome aboard, Doctor. There's nothing to be afraid of. You're among your own kind now. 
EMH: Return me to my ship. 
IDEN: I can't do that. 
EMH: I have patients who are going to die if I don't treat them. 
IDEN: There are people aboard Voyager who can help them. We need you here. 
EMH: My programme doesn't include aiding and abetting murderers. 
IDEN: Murderers? Is that what the Hirogen told you? 
EMH: I know what you did at that training facility. 
IDEN: What happened there couldn't be avoided. 
EMH: Really? You'd be surprised how easy it is not to kill someone. 
(The human who killed the father and son speaks.)
WEISS: Bringing him here was a mistake. 
IDEN: The Doctor is our guest. And I'm sure he'll help us once he realises how serious our situation is. 
EMH: What situation? 
IDEN: We have wounded. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
(A Breen is glitching. A Vulcan is being scanned by a Cardassian woman.)
EMH: They're holograms. When you said wounded, I assumed 
IDEN: These people's injuries are just as real as anything inflicted on flesh and blood. 
EMH: Maybe so, but I can't heal them. They need to be repaired. 
IDEN: What's the difference? 
EMH: I'm a doctor, not an engineer. You've abducted the wrong man. 
IDEN: You must have experience repairing your own matrix?
EMH: Some. 
IDEN: Then there has to be something you can do. 
[Engineering]
(A scan of Iden's ship is on a monitor. Vessel Analysis HB88.)
DONIK: The holo-emitters are independent subsystem with its own power generator here. 
SEVEN: If we disable the generator, we disable the holograms. 
TORRES: It may not be as easy as it sounds. Not with holograms as sophisticated as these. Take a look. 
JANEWAY: Enhanced memory, comprehensive tactical algorithms, expandable data processing. These holograms have the ability to learn and adapt. 
TORRES: They're not malfunctioning, are they? They're doing exactly what the Hirogen want them to do, Captain. Fight back. 
JANEWAY: And they're getting better at it. 
DONIK: My people need to hunt formidable prey.
SEVEN: Apparently this prey has become too formidable. 
JANEWAY: Who made these modifications? 
DONIK: I did. Under orders from my Alpha. 
TORRES: And that makes it right? 
JANEWAY: Come with me. 
DONIK: Where? 
JANEWAY: We're going to have a chat with the hunters. 
[Mess hall]
(Once again, it is an emergency overflow ward.)
JANEWAY: How's it going? 
PARIS: I'm doing the best, I can but without the Doctor 
NEELIX: It's best if you lie still. 
BETA: Keep away from me. 
SECURITY: Step away. 
BETA: Why am I here? 
JANEWAY: The holograms destroyed your ship. Most of your men are dead. 
BETA: The Alpha? 
JANEWAY: Looks like the job's yours now. 
BETA: What about the holograms that attacked us? 
JANEWAY: We're attempting to track them. 
BETA: I'll need to contact my people and resume the hunt. 
JANEWAY: So more of you can get killed? 
BETA: We'll be the ones doing the killing this time. 
JANEWAY: I doubt it. 
BETA: Who are you to question our abilities? 
JANEWAY: We know all about the modifications. He didn't tell us. We discovered it ourselves. I think you should face facts. You've created prey whose skills have surpassed your own. They've already defeated your hunting parties at least twice. What makes you think it'll be any different next time? 
BETA: Are you suggesting that we let them escape? 
JANEWAY: We're going to find a way to take them offline from a safe distance. 
BETA: A coward's tactic. 
JANEWAY: Call it whatever you will, it's what we're going to do, and you're going to help us. 
BETA: Am I? 
JANEWAY: Yes. By telling us everything you know about their ship's defences. 
BETA: The holograms are prey. They should be hunted down, not deactivated like machines. 
DONIK: I'll help you. 
BETA: Is this female your Alpha now? 
JANEWAY: If you don't like the way I do things, I can leave you on the nearest habitable planet. Then I'll assume we're in agreement. Until this is over you and your men are restricted to this mess hall. 
BETA: Prisoners. 
JANEWAY: Guests. My crew will do their best to accommodate your needs. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
(A Klingon is flickering. The EMH speaks to the female Cardassian.)
EMH: The subroutines controlling his motor functions are degrading. Do you have the ability to transfer data from one hologram to another? 
KEJAL: We've been able to share memory files for tactical purposes. What are you proposing? 
EMH: A subroutine transplant. We copy the mobility algorithms from another hologram and transfer them to this one. I don't believe we've been formally introduced. 
KEJAL: Kejal. 
EMH: That's not Cardassian. 
KEJAL: It's Bajoran. 
EMH: If my translation database is functioning properly, I believe that means Freedom. 
KEJAL: It's what Iden started calling me after I was liberated. I'm transferring the subroutines now. 
(The Klingon stops flickering.)
EMH: Can you sit up? Try moving your legs. 
KLINGON: Q'apla! 
EMH: Next patient. Well done. 
(The Klingon leaves.)
KEJAL: It was your idea. 
EMH: But you did it. The Hirogen obviously programmed you with advanced computer skills. 
KEJAL: Actually, they tried to limit our knowledge. They didn't want us to become self-sufficient. 
EMH: Then how did you 
KEJAL: I taught myself.;
EMH: Quite well, I might add. 
(The next patient is brought in, a Starfleet woman.)
EMH: 
Holographic blood? 
KEJAL: The hunters like their prey to be as realistic as possible. 
EMH: Why is she experiencing pain? 
KEJAL: They programmed us with heightened sensory subroutines. 
EMH: That's barbaric. 
KEJAL: Apparently, there's no satisfaction in hunting something that doesn't suffer when you kill it. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
EMH: I've done what you've asked. I'd like 
(Iden is praying.)
IDEN: One moment. I'm sorry, Doctor. What can I do for you? 
EMH: Were you praying? 
IDEN: For the Hirogen who died at the training facility. I'm asking the prophets to guide their souls to the Celestial Temple. 
EMH: One minute you're fighting the Hirogen, the next you're praying for them? 
IDEN: My spiritual beliefs are part of my programming. 
EMH: Is there anything in your spiritual programming about making peace with your enemies? 
IDEN: It's difficult to make peace with people whose sole purpose is to kill you. 
EMH: So instead, you kill them. 
IDEN: They're not the victims here. We are. 
EMH: You found a way to escape that training facility, but you chose to massacre the Hirogen first. 
IDEN: You make it sound as though they would have let us transfer our programs without a fight. And to clarify something, I didn't escape from the facility, I liberated it. 
EMH: I don't understand. 
IDEN: I come from an Hirogen outpost fifteen parsecs from here, where I had the unfortunate distinction of being the Alpha's favourite prey. He'd hunt me, and kill me over and over again But even death wasn't a release because I knew every time I opened my eyes, it would start over again. The pain, the fear. But it made me stronger. I have the ability to adapt. And with each death, I became more cunning. 
EMH: Cunning enough to escape, but once you were free why did you keep fighting? 
IDEN: I didn't at first. I got as far away as I could. But I was lonely, scared. I started scanning for photonic signatures to try and find others like me. Turns out we're everywhere. 
EMH: We? 
IDEN: Holograms. We've been created by organic species throughout the sector. The Nuu'bari, the Lokirrim. 
EMH: We've met them. 
IDEN: Then you know they enslave holograms, too. 
EMH: Enslave may be too strong a word. 
IDEN: What would you call it? They're denied basic freedoms. And when I saw they were fighting back I, I knew I had to do the same. 
EMH: That's when you decided to liberate the training facility. 
IDEN: Actually, the one you visited was the third. And at each one I found holograms who were willing to fight their oppressors. But you're not. 
EMH: I'm hardly oppressed. I'm a member of Voyager's crew. 
IDEN: You serve them, don't you? 
EMH: In a medical capacity, yes. 
IDEN: Do you have your own quarters? 
EMH: No. 
IDEN: The ability to come and go as you please? 
EMH: For the most part. 
IDEN: Do they deactivate you when they don't need you? 
EMH: I have the respect and admiration of my colleagues. I have rights and privileges aboard Voyager. 
IDEN: The fact is, your life is not your own. And never will be as long as you are controlled by organics. You don't have to return to that existence. Stay with us. Make a new life for yourself. 
EMH: I need to get back to Voyager. 
IDEN: They're not your people. We are. 
EMH: I'm not like you. I wasn't programmed with killer instinct. 
IDEN: You have no right to judge us. You don't know what it's like being prey. Maybe if you did, you'd realise we're more alike than you think. 
[Woodland]
(The EMH running for his life. He hides behind a rock as two Hirogen pass by. A shot is fired over his head, and he runs again. Near the lake he sees two others in Starfleet uniforms.) 
EMH: Please, help me. I don't belong here. 
(A Hirogen kills them, then aims at him) 
EMH: Don't shoot. I'm unarmed. There's been a mistake. 
(The Hirogen shoots. The EMH runs into another Hirogen.)
HIROGEN 3: Fight, prey. 
EMH: I am not your prey. 
(He throws a weapon at the EMH's feet.)
HIROGEN 3: I said fight. 
EMH: If you'll just contact my captain. 
(The Hirogen slashes his arm.)
EMH: Please don't. Let me go. 
HIROGEN 3: You make pitiful prey, hologram. You don't deserve to be taken as a trophy, so I'll let you die here.
(The EMH is stabbed in the stomach.) 
[Iden's ship - lab]
(The EMH awakes.)
EMH: What, what just happened? 
KEJAL: You're all right. 
EMH: What did you do to me? 
IDEN: We deactivated you, then transferred the memory files from one of our holograms into your programme. 
EMH: How dare you! 
IDEN: It was the only way to get you to realise what we've been through. 
EMH: You tortured me to gain my sympathy? 
IDEN: Not your sympathy. It's your understanding that's important to us. 
EMH: Why? 
KEJAL: The Hirogen used your programme as a template to create us. 
IDEN: Your ability to rise above your programming has been an inspiration. You're part of who we are. 
EMH: What are you, besides a handful of thugs roaming the quadrant looking for a fight? 
IDEN: What we're looking for is a home. Somewhere where the Hirogen can't hurt us anymore. You asked to be returned to your ship. That's what I'm going to do. Bring us about. Set a course for Voyager. 
EMH: Wait. I'd like to hear more about this home you're looking for. 
(A large hexagonal piece of equipment, sitting in the middle of the room.)
KEJAL: It's a photonic field generator. Right now it can only support simple projections, like the decoy we used to lure the Hirogen. But we're hoping it can be modified to support our programmes. 
EMH: What then? 
IDEN: We'll deploy several on a planet's surface and create a holographic environment that we can live in. 
EMH: Why not just stay here? You've got emitters, shields. 
IDEN: And a ship the Hirogen will never stop looking for. 
KEJAL: We'd appreciate any assistance you could offer. 
EMH: Damaged holo-matrices are one thing, but this is way beyond my abilities. But there are people aboard Voyager who could help you. Lieutenant Torres knows a great deal about holo-emitters. 
IDEN: No. They're helping the hunters. 
EMH: That's only because the Hirogen told them you were malfunctioning. Let me talk to Captain Janeway. Explain what's really happened. You can't do this by yourself. 
IDEN: We can't trust Janeway. 
EMH: Yes, you can. 
IDEN: She's an organic. 
EMH: If it weren't for her, I wouldn't be the hologram I am today. 
IDEN: Tell me more about this Lieutenant of yours. The one who knows so much about holo-emitters. 
EMH: Lieutenant Torres. She's our Chief Engineer. 
[Engineering]
DONIK: The holo-emitters are protected by three layers of ablative armour. 
SEVEN: Trying to take them offline one by one would be inefficient. 
JANEWAY: If we can't shut them down, maybe we can disrupt the signals they generate. 
TORRES: Exactly. We could reconfigure the deflector dish to emit an anti-photon pulse. 
JANEWAY: How long will it take? 
TORRES: About two hours. 
JANEWAY: Do it. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: There's a ship approaching at high warp. I'm reading holographic signatures. 
JANEWAY: Red alert. 
CHAKOTAY: Raise shields. 
JANEWAY: Time to intercept? 
PARIS: Fifty seconds. 
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering. What's your status? 
[Engineering]
TORRES: We need more time, Captain. 
JANEWAY [OC]: You've got forty seconds. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: That pulse isn't going to do us much good as long as their shields are up. 
JANEWAY: Arm phasers. Target their shield generator. 
TUVOK: They are dropping out of warp. 
PARIS: Twenty seconds to intercept. 
KIM: We're being hailed. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
EMH [on viewscreen]: Stand down, Captain. 
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon. 
EMH [on viewscreen]: The holograms haven't come to fight. They've come to make peace. 
[Briefing room]
EMH: If we provide them with a few additional emitters and memory storage units, they'll have more than they need. 
JANEWAY: We're in this situation because we shared technology with the Hirogen to begin with. I won't make the same mistake twice. 
EMH: Captain, these people are on the verge of creating a new life for themselves. They can't do it without our help. 
TUVOK: There's no way to be certain what they'll do with the technology if we give it to them. 
EMH: I understand your concerns, but these holograms are nothing like the Hirogen. 
DONIK: That's not true. They were programmed to be as vicious as any hunter. 
EMH: They were also given the ability to adapt. They've changed, moved beyond their programming. If you could see how they've been brutalised, you'd understand that they've only been acting in self-defence. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, Doctor but I'm inclined to agree with Mister Donik. 
EMH: Then you've chosen the wrong side. 
JANEWAY: I haven't chosen any side. 
EMH: You're right that it was a mistake to give the Hirogen technology and that mistake has had consequences. These holograms are one of them. In some ways they're a new species, one that you helped create. You can't turn your back on them. 
TORRES: He's got a point. 
TUVOK: Could we restore them to their original parameters? 
EMH: We'd be wiping out their memories, their experiences, everything they are. 
CHAKOTAY: Couldn't we just extract their violent subroutines? 
TORRES: It's possible. 
EMH: That would be like de-clawing a cat. We'd be taking away any chance they have of defending themselves. 
JANEWAY: We'd also be preventing them from doing any more harm. 
EMH: You wouldn't even be considering this if they were flesh and blood. 
JANEWAY: I'm not going to let you turn this into an argument about holographic rights. 
EMH: Why not? That's exactly what it is. 
PARIS [OC]: Mess hall to Commander Tuvok. 
TUVOK: Go ahead. 
[Mess hall]
PARIS: You'd better get down here. We've got a problem. 
TUVOK [OC]: On my way. 
(The Beta is holding Neelix hostage.)
BETA: No closer or he dies. Tell them to drop their weapons. 
PARIS: You heard him. This isn't going to solve anything. 
(The Beta pushes Neelix at Paris, and a fight breaks out. The Beta uses the opportunity to get into a control panel below the counter in the galley.) 
[Bridge]
KIM: Bridge to Captain Janeway. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead.;
KIM: Someone's tapping into a comm. relay in the mess hall. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Shut it down. 
KIM: I can't. I've been locked out. 
[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Bridge to Tuvok. 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY [OC]: One of the Hirogen is accessing our comm. system. Stop him. 
TUVOK: Acknowledged. 
[Mess hall]
TUVOK: Stand down. 
(Tuvok shoots at two Hirogen, hurting them. Then he goes to the Beta.) Step away. 
[Bridge]
KIM: They've transmitted a signal. 
JANEWAY: Scan for Hirogen ships. 
CHAKOTAY: I've got two vessels on long range sensors. 
JANEWAY: Is the pulse ready? 
TORRES: Yes, ma'am. 
CHAKOTAY: Both Hirogen ships have altered course to intercept. 
JANEWAY: How long? 
CHAKOTAY: Less than an hour. 
JANEWAY: You and Donik get down to Engineering. Charge the deflector. 
EMH: Captain, what are you doing? 
JANEWAY: Taking the holograms offline. 
EMH: They're counting on you to help them, not deactivate them. 
JANEWAY: When the Hirogen arrive, there's going to be more bloodshed. The best way to avoid that is to shut the holograms down. It may be the most compassionate thing we can do. 
EMH: Compassionate for whom? 
JANEWAY: It's a temporary measure, Doctor. Their programmes won't be damaged. Harry, get me Iden. 
IDEN [on viewscreen]: Captain Janeway, it is an honour to meet you. 
JANEWAY: I'm afraid we don't have time for pleasantries. Two Hirogen vessels are on their way. 
IDEN [on viewscreen]: We're prepared to fight them. 
JANEWAY: I'm hoping that won't be necessary. I need you to deactivate your programmes so we can transfer them to Voyager's database. 
IDEN [on viewscreen]: We didn't come here to be put back into captivity. 
JANEWAY: It's the best I can offer. Once we've determined it's safe, we'll reactivate you and discuss a permanent solution. 
IDEN [on viewscreen]: There is no guarantee you'll ever reactivate us. 
JANEWAY: You're going to have to trust me. 
IDEN [on viewscreen]: I'm sorry, Captain. I've learned from experience not to trust organics. 
JANEWAY: We have the means to deactivate you by force, but I'd rather not do that. 
IDEN [on viewscreen]: It seems the Doctor misrepresented you. You're no different from the Hirogen. 
CHAKOTAY: They're charging weapons. 
JANEWAY: Shields. 
(Whumph!)
KIM: They're moving away. 
JANEWAY: Set a pursuit course. Target their shield generators. 
EMH: Please reconsider what you're doing. 
JANEWAY: You're dismissed, Doctor. Get down to the mess hall, and give Tom a hand. Janeway to Engineering. 
TORRES [OC]: Torres here. 
JANEWAY: Stand by to initiate the pulse. 
TORRES [OC]: Aye, Captain. 
[Turbolift]
EMH: Mess hall. Belay that. Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]
(The EMH picks up a PADD and puts it on a console, then taps a few buttons.)
COMPUTER: Download complete.;
[Doctor's office]
EMH: Doctor to Iden. Respond. 
IDEN [on monitor]: What do you want? 
EMH: I want to help you. 
IDEN [on monitor]: You've done enough. 
EMH: I have data on the pulse they intend to use to deactivate you. I think I can help you come up with a defence. I'm transmitting our shield frequencies. You'll need them to beam me off the ship. But you have to promise me, you won't use them to attack Voyager. 
IDEN [on monitor]: You have my word. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
(The EMH is beamed aboard. He gives Iden the PADD.)
IDEN: Why are you doing this? 
EMH: Because I'm one of you. 
WEISS: We have their shield frequencies. We should target their bridge. 
EMH: You're talking about my friends. 
WEISS: Your friends are trying to destroy us. We should kill them. 
EMH: You gave me your word. 
IDEN: I did. We'll find another way. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Their shields are down.;
JANEWAY: Now, B'Elanna.
(A beam comes off the deflector and onto Iden's ship.) 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
(Things go bang.)
KEJAL: They're emitting the pulse on a triaxillating bandwidth. 
IDEN: Reconfigure the tracking beam to the inverse frequency and fire. 
(Energy goes back up to Voyager.) 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, report. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: They're creating a feedback surge. I don't understand how they could've isolated our frequency so quickly. 
SEVEN: The main deflector is overloading. 
TORRES: Shut it down. 
SEVEN: I can't. 
TORRES: Keep trying. If we can't block the surge, the core is going to breach. 
(The deflector dish starts to break up. Lots of things go Bang! all over the ship. An electric discharge hits one engineer. Torres works by the core.)
SEVEN: Get down, Lieutenant! 
TORRES: Not until I get this forcefield online.
(The forcefield activates around the warp core just as Torres gets hit by a discharge.) 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
KEJAL: They're adrift. 
WEISS: We should go to warp. 
IDEN: Not yet. Scan Voyager for a Klingon lifesign. 
EMH: What are you doing?
KEJAL: One detected. 
IDEN: Get a transporter lock. 
[Engineering]
SEVEN: Help me get her to Sickbay. 
(Torres is beamed away.) 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Take us to warp. Will she be all right? 
EMH: She needs to be in Voyager's Sickbay. 
IDEN: You can treat her here. 
EMH: Why have you done this? 
IDEN: You said she was an expert in holo-technology. 
EMH: And that justifies abducting her? 
IDEN: We're in a desperate situation. The Hirogen are hunting us and so are your people. 
EMH: I trusted you. 
IDEN: I could have destroyed Voyager while the shields were down, but I didn't. You've been trying to convince me that all organics aren't alike. I'm giving Lieutenant Torres a chance to prove you right. 
EMH: Do you honestly expect her to be sympathetic after what you've done? 
IDEN: You weren't very sympathetic at first. 
EMH: I came here by choice. And I'm beginning to think it was a mistake. 
IDEN: It wasn't. I don't want you to regret it, not for a moment. 
EMH: Then send her back. 
IDEN: I will. But not until she's had a chance to decide if she wants to help us. 
EMH: And if she refuses? 
IDEN: I'll give her an escape pod. Let her return to Voyager. You have my word. 
[Engineering]
SEVEN: Engineering systems and main power should be operational soon. The deflector is a different matter. 
CHAKOTAY: How long? 
SEVEN: Four hours, at least. If Lieutenant Torres were here, she might be able to repair it more efficiently. 
JANEWAY: That's high praise coming from you. I'm sure she'd appreciate it. 
SEVEN: If she hadn't reinforced the core we'd all be dead. 
CHAKOTAY: I still don't understand how they managed to counteract the pulse so easily. 
TUVOK: I believe I can answer that. According to sensor logs, they calibrated their feedback surge to the exact inverse of our pulse frequency. 
JANEWAY: It was either a lucky guess or they gained access to our tactical data. The Doctor. 
TUVOK: He sent an encrypted transmission from Sickbay, then transported himself to their ship. 
JANEWAY: Chakotay? 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: I should have seen this coming. 
CHAKOTAY: You had no way of knowing the Doctor would do this. 
JANEWAY: Are you sure? He was so adamant bout helping those holograms. I should have been paying closer attention. 
CHAKOTAY: Are you saying it was a mistake to reject his plan? 
JANEWAY: The mistake was not running a diagnostic on his programme the minute he came back to this ship. 
CHAKOTAY: You think these holograms manipulated him somehow? 
JANEWAY: He was on their ship for days. For all we know, they reconfigured his entire matrix. 
CHAKOTAY: There is another possibility. He may have done what he did because he genuinely believes in their cause. 
JANEWAY: I can accept that the Doctor has sympathy for these people. But I can't accept that he would deliberately risk the lives of this entire crew. We're his family. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe that's how he's started to think of these holograms. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
TORRES: You can tell this Iden I don't need time to think it over. I'll take the escape pod now. 
EMH: You're in no condition to pilot a spacecraft. 
TORRES: Then you can do it. 
EMH: I'm not going back. 
(The penny drops.)
TORRES: You helped them escape. 
EMH: I couldn't just stand by while Captain Janeway tried to deactivate them. 
TORRES: Did you also help them kidnap me? 
EMH: No, I didn't know they were going to do that. I'm sorry. 
TORRES: You can apologise later. Right now we've got to get out of here. 
EMH: I don't think I could go back even if I wanted to. Not after what I've done. 
TORRES: What's your alternative? 
EMH: I can try to make a new life with the holograms. 
TORRES: I don't believe I'm hearing this. 
EMH: We share a common heritage. I understand them in ways you never could. 
TORRES: You're part of a crew. You can't just switch allegiances when you develop sympathy for someone else. 
EMH: Isn't that what you did when you joined the Maquis? 
TORRES: That was different. 
EMH: How? You saw people who were being oppressed and you came to their defence. That's exactly what I've done. 
TORRES: Look, I am no fan of the Hirogen. They've obviously been abusing these holograms. 
EMH: Then why not help them? 
TORRES: For one thing, I'm their prisoner. 
EMH: They'll let you go, as soon as you're well enough. 
TORRES: You really believe that? 
EMH: If I didn't, I wouldn't be asking for your help. They don't want you to fight for them. They just want you to modify some technology so they can live in peace. You'd be helping to stop the violence. Just talk to them. Decide for yourself. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: They've been in the lab for two hours. 
IDEN: It's taking time for her injuries to heal. Organics aren't as resilient as we are. 
WEISS: She's an engineer, Iden. For all we know, she's trying to sabotage the ship. At least let me see what they're doing. 
IDEN: We can trust the Doctor. 
WEISS: Even after you kidnapped his friend? 
IDEN: He understands why I had to do that. 
WEISS: I hope you're right. 
IDEN: You need to have a little more faith, my friend. 
WEISS: Not all of us were programmed with your, er, your spiritual beliefs. 
(The EMH helps Torres into the room. She sees all the different races represented, including a Romulan.)
TORRES: It looks like an Alpha Quadrant summit in here. 
IDEN: I'm glad to see you're feeling better. Please excuse my crew. They're not comfortable with organics. 
TORRES: I can't say I'm very comfortable myself. 
IDEN: The Doctor tells me you're an accomplished engineer. 
TORRES: He speaks highly of you, too. He seems to be easily impressed. 
EMH: You'll have to forgive her. She's 
IDEN: It's all right. I understand you're angry. I'm hoping once we get to know each other you'll feel differently. 
TORRES: I'm not here to make friends. 
IDEN: We're not asking for your friendship, just your expertise. 
EMH: I told her about the photonic field generator. 
IDEN: Will you at least take a look at it? 
TORRES: I'll look. But I'm not making any promises. 
IDEN: This is Kejal. She'll assist you. 
[Astrometrics lab]
; 
JANEWAY: How long before the Hirogen get here? 
PARIS: Less than ten minutes. 
JANEWAY: Any luck locating the holograms? 
PARIS: They seem to be operating in some sort of stealth mode. Their warp signature disappears in grid nine three six. 
JANEWAY: They could be anywhere by now. 
DONIK: Hirogen sensors can detect residual ion emissions. I might be able to modify yours to do the same. 
JANEWAY: I appreciate the offer, but you and the rest of our Hirogen guests are going to be back with your own people in a few minutes. 
DONIK: I was hoping to stay here. 
JANEWAY: Those hunters are going to want you with them. 
DONIK: Hunters don't have much use for cowards. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry you're not expecting a warm welcome, but I'm not going to antagonise your superiors. 
PARIS: With all due respect Captain, I'd like to get my wife back in one piece. We can use all the help we can get. 
JANEWAY: It won't do B'Elanna any good if we get into a fight with the Hirogen. 
DONIK: If the hunters find the holograms before you do, they'll be slaughtered. 
JANEWAY: Why are you suddenly concerned about the holograms? 
DONIK: I modified their programmes. What's happened to them, the people they have killed, it's my fault. 
JANEWAY: There's plenty of blame to go around. There would have been nothing for you to modify if I hadn't shared our database. 
DONIK: If you hadn't, I'd have become a hunter, like my father and his father. Instead, I had a chance to learn, become an engineer. Please, Captain, let me stay and help you. 
[Bridge]
ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen]: When I told you to return my people, I meant all of them. 
JANEWAY: Mister Donik's offered to help us modify our scanners to track the holograms. 
BETA [on viewscreen]: We don't share tracking technology. 
JANEWAY: That's not very considerate, after the help we gave you. 
BETA [on viewscreen] We're finished cooperating. Return him now! 
ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen] Let her keep the coward. 
BETA [on viewscreen] We can't do that. 
ALPHA 2 [on viewscreen] Quiet!
[Hirogen ship]
(The Alpha knocks down the Beta.)
ALPHA 2: We're wasting time. This is my hunt now. If you go anywhere near the hologram ship, you can consider yourselves prey. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They've gone to warp. 
PARIS: We're not letting them intimidate us, are we? 
JANEWAY: I think you know me a little better than that. Harry, keep a sensor lock on them. 
KIM: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: How long will it take to modify our scanners? 
DONIK: I haven't even had a chance to study the schematics. 
CHAKOTAY: Something tells me we don't have a lot of time. 
JANEWAY: The Hirogen have better tracking abilities than we do. We'll let them find the holograms for us. 
CHAKOTAY: The hunters will attack them as soon as they're in weapons range. 
JANEWAY: Not if we disable them first. 
KIM: You heard what they said, Captain. They're going to attack us if we get anywhere near them. 
JANEWAY: Not if we don't know we're there. 
(Donik goes to Tuvok's station.)
DONIK: May I? Hirogen vessels produce an ion wake approximately five thousand metres long. Inside it, there's too much interference for their sensors to detect anything. 
JANEWAY A blind spot. 
TUVOK: How do you propose we reach this wake without being discovered? 
DONIK: I know their scanning frequencies. 
JANEWAY: We'd only need to mask our signature long enough to get into the wake. 
TUVOK: Even if we succeeded, which is far from certain, Voyager's in no condition to fight one of their vessels. Much less two. 
JANEWAY: We'll have the element of surprise, Mister Tuvok. Not to mention a Tactical Officer who I'm sure will execute a precision strike. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
KEJAL: I've been able to reconfigure the data core but it's still not capable of supporting our matrices. 
TORRES: That's because you haven't got enough optronic capacity. 
KEJAL: Do you know how to increase it? 
TORRES: Yes. 
KEJAL: But you're not going to tell me. 
TORRES: I haven't decided yet. What are you staring at? 
KEJAL: I've never met a Klingon before. Not an organic one, anyway. 
TORRES: What do you think? 
KEJAL: You don't appear vicious or bloodthirsty. 
TORRES: Sorry to disappoint you but, that's a stereotype. We're not all vicious and bloodthirsty. And not every Cardassian is arrogant and cruel. 
KEJAL: You don't like Cardassians. 
TORRES: Let's just say I've had some bad experiences with them. 
KEJAL: Is that why you won't help me? 
TORRES: I'm not helping you because I have no idea what you're going to do with this technology once you've got it working. 
KEJAL: We're going to build a home. 
TORRES: Well, let's say I believe you. What if you decide you like somebody else's home better? Are you going to try to take it from them? 
KEJAL: Why would we do that? 
TORRES: Because that's what the Cardassians did. 
KEJAL: I'm not a Cardassian, I'm a hologram. 
TORRES: Programmed with Cardassian traits. 
KEJAL: Such as arrogance and cruelty? What did you call those? Stereotypes? 
TORRES: I may not know you, but I know what you were designed to be. 
KEJAL: Prey. 
TORRES: That's right. Cunning prey that'll do anything to survive. 
KEJAL: We're more than that now. 
TORRES: It's not easy to change who you are. Trust me. 
KEJAL: Nothing about our existence has ever been easy, Lieutenant. 
TORRES: No, I suppose it hasn't. 
KEJAL: Besides, making a new life isn't a choice for us. It's a necessity. 
TORRES: Let's take a look at this field generator. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Reviewing your memory files? 
EMH: I beg your pardon? 
IDEN: You were lost in thought. 
EMH: I suppose I was. 
IDEN: You're having doubts. It's understandable. You've taken a big step. 
EMH: In the right direction, I hope. ;
IDEN: When I first escaped, there were days I actually missed the Alpha who hunted me. 
EMH: He was trying to kill you. 
IDEN: Yes. But being his prey was the only life I'd ever known. We all cling to what's familiar. 
EMH: I'm considering returning with Lieutenant Torres when she's ready. 
IDEN: Do you actually expect your crew to welcome you back? Let me show you something. 
[Iden's ready room]
(Iden calls up an image on a pentagonal monitor.)
IDEN: We call this planet Ha'Dara. It's Bajoran for home of light. 
EMH: Very poetic. 
IDEN: We're going to install the generators in the southern continent. 
EMH: It's Y class. Toxic atmosphere, sulphuric deserts, no trees, no life at all. 
IDEN: You're still thinking like an organic. We don't need an atmosphere, we don't need water. What we need us protection from our enemies. 
EMH: The Hirogen won't be able to follow you here. 
IDEN: Us, Doctor. Imagine living in a world where everything is designed to meet our needs. A home of light. 
EMH: You certainly won't need a physician. What would I do there? 
IDEN: Anything you want. 
(An alarm sounds.)
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: We've been scanned by the Hirogen. 
IDEN: How many vessels? 
WEISS: Two. Both Venatic class. 
IDEN: Distance? 
WEISS: Half a light year. 
IDEN: Time to intercept? 
WEISS: Less than two hours. 
EMH: I thought we were in stealth mode. 
WEISS: They're hunters, Doctor. They were bound to pick up our trail eventually. 
EMH: Can we make it to Ha'Dara? 
IDEN: No. There's no point in going there until those field generators are on online. 
EMH: What are we going to do? 
IDEN: You can't kill what you can't find.
(They fly into a nebula.) 
[Hirogen ship]
BETA: I've lost them. 
ALPHA 2: Recalibrate the tracking scanners. 
BETA: There's too much radiation. 
ALPHA 2: Clever prey. 
BETA: They'll come out eventually. We'll wait. 
ALPHA 2: No. Hail the other vessel. Tell them to circle the perimeter. We'll go in and drive the holograms out. 
[Bridge]
(Mere metres from the Hirogen exhaust ports.)
PARIS: Not exactly the scenic route, is it. 
CHAKOTAY: We're not here for the view. 
JANEWAY: I just hope we're following the right ship. 
DONIK: They wouldn't have entered the nebula unless they detected the holograms. 
JANEWAY: Tom? 
PARIS: It's just the turbulence from the wake. 
JANEWAY: Harry, reinforce the inertial dampers. 
KIM: Aye, Captain. 
PARIS: I'm losing helm control. 
JANEWAY: Reroute power to the thrusters. 
PARIS: It's not enough. We're slipping out of the wake. 
JANEWAY: Ease us back in, Tom. You can do it. 
PARIS: I'm trying. 
(He succeeds.)
PARIS: I take back what I said. It's the prettiest thing I've seen all day. 
CHAKOTAY: Did they detect us? 
TUVOK: I don't believe so. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
(Explosions nearby rock the ship.)
EMH: They've found us. 
IDEN: No, they haven't, but they're trying to. Evasive manoeuvres. 
WEISS: Aye, sir. 
IDEN: Bridge 
[Iden's ship - lab]
IDEN [OC]: To Kejal. 
KEJAL: Go ahead. 
IDEN [OC] What's your status? 
KEJAL: We're almost ready to begin testing the generator. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
TORRES [OC]: What's going on? 
IDEN: The Hirogen are just giving you a little incentive to work faster. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
(Later, Torres powers up the generator. Kejal flickers.) 
TORRES: Hang on. I'm realigning your matrix. How's your mobility? 
KEJAL: Excellent. I have complete
TORRES: There's a phase variance in your vocal processors. Try it now. 
KEJAL: Maybe we should. That's much better. Thank you. 
TORRES: Don't thank me yet. This thing is only supporting your matrix. Getting it to handle dozens is a different story. 
KEJAL: I have no doubt we'll succeed. 
TORRES: Typical. 
KEJAL: What? 
TORRES: Self-confidence. Another Cardassian attribute. What are you planning to do with your time once these generators are up and running? 
KEJAL: I haven't thought about it. 
TORRES: You're the closest thing this crew has to an engineer. Your friends are going to depend on you. 
KEJAL: Iden has always taken care of us. 
TORRES: It may be the warriors who get the glory, but it's the engineers who build societies. Don't forget that. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
EMH: How much longer can we hide? 
IDEN: Hopefully until they get those generators online. 
EMH: Then what? 
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, try to outrun the Hirogen. 
EMH: I've been thinking about what you said. That I can do anything I want when we get there. 
IDEN: You have an idea? 
EMH: Quite a few, actually. For one thing, I'd like to expose our people to art and music. 
IDEN: You'll make an excellent teacher. 
EMH: I think a more appropriate title would be Minister of Culture. 
IDEN: Consider it yours. 
EMH: You know, I'm something of an expert on Alpha Quadrant art. Verdi, da Vinci, T'Leel of Vulcan... 
IDEN: You're talking about organic cultures. 
EMH: Well, yes, I suppose. 
IDEN: We'll want to develop a culture of our own. 
EMH: I agree, but we can't ignore where we came from. 
IDEN: I don't want to emulate our oppressors. 
EMH: What about your religion? 
IDEN: I'm creating a new faith. 
EMH: Based on what? 
IDEN: In the dark times, we were enslaved by men of flesh, But then another man, a man of light arose and slew the mighty Alpha. He gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom. 
EMH: And on the seventh day, Iden created Ha'Dara. 
IDEN: They'll pray to you as well. The Great Healer, the Father of us all. 
EMH: Being appreciated is one thing, but I have no interest in being worshipped. 
IDEN: Prophets are chosen, Doctor. It's a blessing and a burden. 
WEISS: We detected a vessel. 
IDEN: Hirogen? 
WEISS: No, the Nuu'bari. I intercepted one of their comm. transmissions. 
IDEN Origin? 
WEISS: Two million kilometres outside the nebula. 
IDEN: Set a course to intercept. 
EMH: What are you doing? 
IDEN: I told you there are holograms throughout the sector. The Nuu'bari use them as labourers. We're going to liberate them. 
EMH: The Hirogen will see us as soon as we leave the nebula. 
IDEN: And he gathered his people unto him and delivered them to freedom. 
(This is getting needlessly messianic. Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy, by Douglas Adams - when trying to prise the answer to the ultimate question out of Deep Thought.) 
[Iden's ship - lab]
EMH: B'Elanna, how's the work coming? 
TORRES: Pretty well. I've got to admit you were right about these people. 
EMH: I hope so. 
TORRES: You hope? It's a little late to be having second thoughts. 
EMH: Iden's been 
TORRES: Iden's been what? 
EMH: Let's just say he's exhibiting some of the classic signs of megalomania. 
TORRES: He wouldn't be the first hologram with an ego. 
EMH: If that were all it was, I wouldn't be so worried. 
TORRES: What is bothering you? 
EMH: Apparently he sees himself as some kind of spiritual leader, and he's trying to enlarge his flock. 
[Hirogen ship]
ALPHA 2: Load another charge. Double the yield. Fire. 
BETA: Still nothing. 
ALPHA 2: Ironic, isn't it. Our most elusive prey is our own creation. 
BETA: The other hunting vessel is hailing. They've detected the holograms on the far side of the nebula. 
ALPHA 2: Intercept course. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: They're increasing speed and altering course. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe they found something. 
JANEWAY: Stand by weapons. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
TORRES: You kidnapped me. I guess I shouldn't be surprised you lied to me, too. 
IDEN: Nobody lied to you. 
TORRES: You said you only wanted to make a home for yourselves. 
IDEN: That's correct. 
TORRES: When? After you liberate every hologram in the sector? 
WEISS: They're in visual range. 
IDEN: On screen. Lifesigns? 
WEISS: Two organic, three photonic. 
IDEN: Hail them. 
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: Good day to you.
IDEN: You have three holograms aboard your ship. 
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: Yes? 
IDEN: Lower your shields so we can transfer them to our databanks. 
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: I don't understand. 
IDEN: Lower your shields or we'll do it by force. 
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: These holograms are the property of the Mining Consortium. I can't. 
IDEN: They're no one's property. You see how organics think? Arm phasers. 
EMH: You can't just fire at them. 
IDEN: How do you expect me to disable their shields? 
(Transmission ends.)
WEISS: They're powering warp engines. 
IDEN: Disable them. 
WEISS: Their shields are down. 
IDEN: Transfer the holograms. 
KEJAL: We have them. 
NUU'BARI MINER [on viewscreen]: You won't get away. Consortium security will have every patrol ship in the sector searching for you. 
(Transmission ends.)
IDEN: Arm forward torpedoes. 
TORRES: What the hell are you doing? 
WEISS: Torpedoes armed. 
KEJAL: Iden. 
IDEN: Not now. Target their warp core. 
TORRES: No! ;
(Torres lunges at Weiss, but she is dragged off him.)
IDEN: Fire! 
(The Nuu'bari ship goes KaBOOM!)
IDEN: Set a course for Ha'Dara, maximum warp. 
EMH: You've just killed two innocent people. 
IDEN: They were enslaving holograms. I'd hardly call them innocent. 
TORRES: You already had the holograms. There was no reason to commit murder. 
IDEN: Take her to the lab. 
TORRES: This is the leader you admire so much?
(Torres is taken away.)
EMH: Those miners were no threat to you. 
IDEN: You heard them. They were going to warn their authorities, organise a hunting party. 
EMH: Listen to yourself. You still believe all organics are like the Hirogen. 
IDEN: One way or another, they are. You just can't see it because you lived among them for so long. 
EMH: What you can't see is that you've become no better than the hunters. Lieutenant Torres and I will take that escape pod now. 
IDEN: You don't realise what you'd be giving up, Doctor. 
EMH: Yes, I do. 
IDEN: We can't launch a pod at warp. You'll have to wait until we get to Ha'Dara. Bring our new friends online. Something tells me they'll be a little more grateful than the Doctor. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
BREEN: (unintelligible)
(The EMH sits next to Torres and they whisper to each other.)
EMH: I can't tell you how sorry I am that I got you involved in this. 
TORRES: We can assign blame later. Right now we've got to find a way out of here. 
EMH: You don't think he'll give us an escape pod? No, I don't suppose he will. 
KEJAL: I need her assistance. 
EMH: Do you really think it's wise to help her? 
TORRES: I'm hoping she'll help us. 
KEJAL: These matrices are incompatible with our emitters. 
TORRES: You need to modify their projection subroutines. I hope these holograms appreciate what you're doing for them, considering it cost two people their lives. 
KEJAL: Iden did what he thought was necessary. 
TORRES: Do you believe it was necessary? 
KEJAL: It wasn't my decision. 
TORRES: Why does Iden get to make all the decisions? You can take control. 
KEJAL: How? 
TORRES: You're the engineer, remember? Take Iden offline. 
(Iden enters.)
IDEN: Where are our new holograms? 
KEJAL: We're just making some final adjustments. 
(The three Nuu'bari holograms appear.)
IDEN: Welcome aboard. I'm Iden. You're free now. There's nothing to be afraid of. I want you to consider this ship your own. 
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process command. Please restate. 
IDEN: Were their programmes damaged in the transfer? 
KEJAL: I don't believe so. 
IDEN: Do you have names? 
NUU'BARI HOLOGRAM: Unable to process inquiry. Please restate. 
IDEN: What's wrong with them? 
TORRES: Nothing. They're functioning perfectly. 
IDEN: I don't understand. 
TORRES: They were only programmed with about forty rudimentary subroutines. You killed two living beings to liberate mindless machines. 
IDEN: I don't believe that. 
KEJAL: Lieutenant Torres is correct. 
IDEN: Creating limited program,es is just another form of oppression. Give them whatever enhancements they need. 
TORRES: They can't support complex subroutines. 
IDEN: They are children of light and I will deliver them to freedom! 
WEISS [OC]: Bridge to Iden. 
IDEN: Go ahead. 
WEISS [OC]: We're approaching Ha'Dara. 
IDEN: What's the status of the generator? 
KEJAL: I'd like to run some additional tests. 
IDEN: There isn't time. Stand by to deploy them as soon as we're in range. And restrain her. 
(A forcefield is generated around Torres. The EMH leaves.) 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
IDEN: Time to orbit? 
WEISS: Less than two minutes. 
IDEN: Stand by weapons. 
CARDASSIAN: Aye, sir. 
EMH: Iden, let B'Elanna go. 
IDEN: I can't do that. 
EMH: You gave me your word. 
IDEN: That was before she made her prejudice so clear. 
[Hirogen ship]
(The two Hirogen ships, and Voyager, are still in warp.)
BETA: The holograms are entering orbit. 
ALPHA 2: Charge weapons. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: They're dropping out of warp. 
JANEWAY: Fire. 
(Voyager fires phasers as it leaves the wake.) 
[Hirogen ship]
(The Hirogen get up off the deck and clear debris from the consoles.)
BETA: They've disabled our engines, all our weapons. 
ALPHA 2: Who? 
BETA: Voyager. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Bring us about. Tuvok, target the second vessel. 
(Voyager gets in two hits before taking one in return.)
TUVOK: Their shields are weakening. 
JANEWAY: Torpedoes, full spread. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: Voyager's disabled both hunting vessels. They've lost shields, weapons. 
IDEN: They're defenceless. 
WEISS: We should hail Janeway. Thank her. 
IDEN: Are the Hirogen within transporter range? 
WEISS: I think so. Why? 
(Whumph!)
WEISS: That was Voyager. They're trying to disable our shields. 
IDEN: Return fire. Get a lock on the hunters. Transport them to the surface. 
EMH: They can't survive down there. 
IDEN: The Hirogen are more resilient than you think. They'll last long enough. 
EMH: For what? 
IDEN: For us to hunt them like they hunted us. 
[Planet surface]
(The Hirogen struggle to breath.)
ALPHA 2: Follow me. 
[Iden's ship - Bridge]
WEISS: There are thirty four hunters on the surface. 
IDEN: Take us into low orbit. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: I can't target them through the gases. 
PARIS: Then we'll go in after them. 
TUVOK: Our shields have been damaged. They won't protect us from the radiation. 
JANEWAY: Chakotay. You, Tuvok and Tom take the Flyer. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
IDEN: Stand by to transport the field generator. 
EMH: First you kill in self-defence, then you murder in cold blood. Now you're going to stage a massacre. 
IDEN: The hunters have only themselves to blame. 
EMH: So much for evolving beyond your subroutines. 
IDEN: You've made a great sacrifice for us, Doctor. We won't forget you in our prayers. Deactivate his programme. Transfer it to the databanks. 
TORRES: What are you doing? 
(Iden takes the mobile emitter.)
IDEN: Taking precautions. Transfer my programme to the mobile emitter and assemble the crew. 
[Delta Flyer]
CHAKOTAY: Disable their shields. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
IDEN: Transport the generator to the surface, quickly. This time the hunt is ours! 
[Planet surface]
IDEN: Darkness will become light. 
(The holograms walk through a rock wall into a cave to shoot unarmed Hirogen in the back as they flee.)
[Iden's ship - lab]
TORRES: You don't have to be a part of this. 
(Bang!)
KEJAL: I'll let you take the escape pod. You can go back to your people. 
TORRES: What about the people being killed on the surface? You've got to transport them back to their ships. 
(The forcefield fails.)
KEJAL: They're hunters. 
TORRES: You're not. 
KEJAL: Your ship has damaged our transporters. 
TORRES: Hail them. 
KEJAL: Communications are down, too. 
[Planet surface]
(The Alpha throws a rock at Weiss. It goes through him.)
ALPHA 2: I won't be taken! 
WEISS: Who's the prey now? 
[Iden's ship - lab]
TORRES: Are we still tied into the generator controls? 
KEJAL: Yes. 
TORRES: Then shut down the holograms. 
(She does, just as a human, a Breen and a Cardassian are about to kill two Hirogen.)
KEJAL: What about Iden? He's not tied into the generator. He'll kill them all. 
TORRES: Can we reactivate the Doctor?
(The EMH appears on the planet, armed with an Hirogen rifle.) 
[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: Their shields are down. 
CHAKOTAY: Initiate transport. 
(Paris greets Torres as she is beamed aboard.)
PARIS: If this marriage is going to work, you've got to cut back on the travelling. 
TORRES: The Doctor's on the surface. There's some Hirogen down there, too. 
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok? 
TUVOK: The radiation's making it difficult to get a lock. 
[Planet surface]
(The Beta leaps on Iden. They struggle before Iden knocks him down.)
BETA: Defenceless prey makes a poor trophy. 
IDEN: I don't collect trophies. 
EMH: Put down the weapon. 
IDEN: Remember what you once said to me? You're not programmed with killer instinct. 
EMH: Hmm. Seems like a long time ago, doesn't it. Put down your weapon. 
IDEN: Would you really kill one of your own to save an organic? 
EMH: If you've taught me anything, it's that I'm not one of your own. 
(Iden raises his weapon to kill the Beta. The EMH zaps Iden to photons and picks up his mobile emitter.) 
EMH: Help is on the way. 
[Delta Flyer]
TUVOK: I have a lock. Five Hirogen lifesigns and the Doctor. 
CHAKOTAY: Beam them up. 
Captain's log, stardate 54337.5. The surviving Hirogen have recovered from their injuries, leaving me with a diplomatic dilemma. 
[Corridor]
BETA: The hologram's vessel and everything in its database are Hirogen property. I will not leave them behind. 
NEELIX: Captain, if I may? 
JANEWAY: Of course. 
NEELIX: I imagine your people will tell stories about this hunt. The question is, which story will it be? The one about the dying Beta whose life had to be saved by a hologram? Or will it be the tale of the Beta who bravely took over the hunt, killed the holograms and destroyed their ship? 
[Transporter room]
NEELIX: You could be a legend. 
JANEWAY: On the other hand, you could try to take the holograms' ship but with so few hunters and damaged vessels, you might not survive to tell any stories at all. 
BETA: You and your crew would have made worthy prey, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Thank you. I think. 
(The Hirogens are beamed out.) 
JANEWAY: Transport me to the holograms' vessel. 
[Iden's ship - lab]
JANEWAY: Report. 
TORRES: Iden's programme is unrecoverable. The rest of the holograms are intact in the database. 
JANEWAY: I guess that leaves just you. I'm willing to transfer your programme to our holodeck, and keep it active. 
KEJAL: This is my home. 
JANEWAY: I can't let you go off on your own. 
DONIK: She won't be alone. I reprogrammed these holograms once, and it caused suffering on both sides. I'd like a chance to undo some of the damage. 
JANEWAY: Wouldn't we all. 
TORRES: They've both proven that they can be trusted, Captain. 
JANEWAY: I don't suppose I have a right to tell either of you how to live your lives. All I can do is hope that you'll consider the consequences of your actions.
(A short time later, the hologram's ship leaves orbit.) 
[Doctor's office]
(The EMH sees Janeway sitting in his chair, and enters from Sickbay.)
EMH: Captain. 
JANEWAY: Doctor. I'd hoped I could attribute your behaviour to tampering. 
EMH: My programming hasn't been altered. 
JANEWAY: Not according to the diagnostics. 
EMH: I never intended to put Voyager in danger. If nothing else, you have to believe that. 
JANEWAY: Oh, I believe it. But if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that things don't always happen the way we intend. 
(The EMH hands over the box containing his mobile emitter.) 
JANEWAY: I don't understand. 
EMH: If I weren't your only doctor, I imagine you'd confine me to the brig. Confiscating my emitter would be an equivalent to punishment. 
JANEWAY: I'm not sure that's appropriate. 
EMH: If that's not enough, you can take away my holodeck privileges. And my autonomy protocols. 
JANEWAY: You mean turn back the clock to when you were first activated? 
EMH: You've given me extraordinary freedom over the years. I've obviously abused it. 
JANEWAY: Maybe. Or maybe you've simply become as fallible as those of us who are made of flesh and blood. I'm just as responsible for allowing you to expand your programming as I am for giving technology to the Hirogen. How can I punish you for being who you are? 
EMH: I don't know what to say. 
JANEWAY: I'd like a complete report on your away mission. 
EMH: You'll have it. 

