Episode Number: 220
The Voyager Transcripts - Tuvix
Tuvix
Stardate: 49655.2
Original Airdate: May 6 1996
Captain's log, stardate 49655.2. Our sensors have located a variety of flower which may prove to be a valuable nutritional supplement. I have sent Mister Neelix and Mister Tuvok to collect samples. 
[Planet surface]
NEELIX: Oh, smell that air, Mister Vulcan. Look at that sky. Oh, it's an exhilarating day, isn't it? 
TUVOK: As you well know by now, Mister Neelix, I do not experience exhilaration. 
NEELIX: Oh, let's not quibble about semantics. A breeze is blowing. The sun is shining. It's beautiful. 
TUVOK: The weather is certainly adequate for our purposes. 
NEELIX: Adequate? You know something? You're acting more Tuvokian than usual this morning. 
TUVOK: I am who I am, Mister Neelix. It is impossible for me to be more or less like myself. 
NEELIX: There you go with the semantics again. But you know what I'm talking about. 
TUVOK: I'm afraid I don't. 
NEELIX: Well, then I'll explain it to you. You're a nature lover, aren't you? 
TUVOK: I appreciate nature, yes. 
NEELIX: Then it's one of the things that you and I have in common. And here we are, on a perfect day, foraging for an exceptionally lovely variety of orchid, your favourite flower, and all you can say about the experience is that it's adequate. I just, I don't see why you're not having fun. 
TUVOK: We are not here to have fun. We are here to collect samples. 
NEELIX: Why, is there some regulation that says we can't do both at the same time? I know. Why don't, why don't we sing a song while we toil, hmm? It'll cheer you up. Now, I've been studying Vulcan music. Do you know that lovely tune that starts, (sings) Oh starless night of boundless black. 
TUVOK: That lovely tune is a traditional funeral dirge. 
NEELIX: I know, but it was the most cheerful song I could find in the Vulcan database. Come on, Tuvok, join me. Oh starless night of boundless black. 
TUVOK: Mister Neelix. 
NEELIX: Yes? 
TUVOK: Do you think you could possibly behave a little less like yourself? 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Are Neelix and Tuvok back from the surface? 
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. We're having some trouble with the transporter. 
TORRES: Captain, there's a minor glitch in the molecular imaging scanners. Ensign Kim should have it up and running in a few minutes. 
[Transporter room]
KIM: Try narrowing the annular confinement beam. 
HOGAN: How's that? 
KIM: Let's try it again. Kim to Away team. Sorry for the delay. We're ready to bring you back. 
TUVOK [OC]: Acknowledged. 
KIM: Energise. 
HOGAN: There's something wrong, sir. I'm only getting one pattern. 
KIM: Tuvok or Neelix? 
HOGAN: I don't think it's either of them. 
KIM: Abort. 
HOGAN: It's too late. 
(A curious mixture of Vulcan and Talaxian is standing on the transporter pad, wearing a uniform with garishly patterned shoulders.) 
KIM: Kim to Security. Intruder alert, Transporter Room One. Identify yourself. 
TUVIX: I am Lieutenant Tuvok. And I am Neelix. 
HOGAN: Sir, according to the bio-scanners, he's right. Somehow, their patterns have merged. 
TUVIX: I think the logical thing is for me to go to Sickbay. 
[Sickbay]
(There is a security guard at the door, and one by the biobed.) 
JANEWAY: And you recognise all of us? 
TUVIX: Of course. Doctor, Captain Janeway, Ensign Kim, Kes. 
EMH: My scans indicate that all biological matter was merged on a molecular level. Proteins, enzymes, DNA sequences. The man you see before you is literally a fusion of two men. But he's surprisingly healthy considering the circumstances. All vital signs are stable. 
JANEWAY: What's the last thing you remember? 
TUVIX: I, we, that is to say, Tuvok and Neelix, we had just finished gathering the samples. We were beaming back to the ship. The next thing I knew, I was standing on the transporter pad, as you see me now. 
EMH: I'm also picking up traces of a third genetic pattern. It appears to be plant-based. 
TUVIX: The orchids. We had collected several dozen samples of orchids. They were in our sample containers when we beamed up. 
EMH: Well, they're part of your genetic structure now. But they don't appear to be affecting your biochemistry. 
JANEWAY: Torres said you were having trouble with the molecular imaging scanners. 
KIM: That's right. 
JANEWAY: Maybe this alien plant life affected the scanners in some way. 
KIM: Possibly. I'll know more after we've run a diagnostic on the bio-filters and transporter logs. 
JANEWAY: Get on it. 
(Kim leaves.) 
JANEWAY: In the meantime, I'll send an away team in a shuttlecraft to collect fresh samples of the orchid for further study. Doctor, let me know as soon as you have something more. 
EMH: Yes, Captain. 
(Janeway leaves.) EMH: Kes, take our patient to the science lab and perform a full bio-spectral analysis. I'll start examining the genetic data. 
[Science lab]
TUVIX: This situation must be very difficult for you, Kes. Perhaps it would be easier if someone else administered these tests. 
KES: Thank you for your concern, but I'll be fine. This scan is very delicate, so try to remain still for the next twenty minutes. 
TUVIX: I'll do my best. 
KES: Don't worry. We're going to figure it out. 
TUVIX: Oh, I'm not worried. I couldn't be in better hands. This crew, you're consummate professionals. You're my friends, my family. So worrying would be illogical, don't you think? 
KES: Would you mind if I asked you some questions about what you're going through? 
TUVIX: Not at all. 
KES: Well, do you feel as if you're thinking with two minds, two separate minds? Are Neelix and Tuvok inside of you, talking to me, talking to each other? 
TUVIX: If you mean am I suffering from some form of multiple personality disorder, I don't think so. I do have the memories of both men, but I seem to have a single consciousness. You must find me very odd, Kes. 
KES: No, of course not. Try to keep still. So, what should I call you? 
TUVIX: Ah, a name. I hadn't thought of that. What an intriguing question. I can see why the Doctor's finding it so difficult to choose one. A name can have a significant effect upon a person's sense of identity. I've got it. 
KES: What? 
TUVIX: Why don't you call me Neevok? Wait. This is better. How about Tuvix? 
KES: Tuvix it is. 
TUVIX: I am so glad you're here to help me through this, sweeting. I'm sorry. It was instinct. 
KES: Why don't we finish the scan? 
Chief Medical Officer's Log, supplemental. Extensive microcellular scans on the merged humanoid have thus far yielded no clues to either a cause or a method of separation. 
[Sickbay]
TUVIX: Ah, Captain. So good of you to come. 
JANEWAY: How are you feeling? 
TUVIX: I feel well. You might even say exhilarated! 
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it. 
TUVIX: Well, that's what I wanted to talk to you about. In the past twenty four hours, I've undergone rigorous diagnostic testing, submitted to an extensive psychological profile, and I've been poked and prodded in organs that I didn't even know I had. While all this testing may, no doubt, be necessary, frankly, I'm restless. 
JANEWAY: To tell you the truth, we could use a little help in the Mess hall. 
TUVIX: And I'd be glad to give you a hand. But, after careful consideration, I've decided that the most sensible thing for me to do is to resume the tactical post. 
JANEWAY: Tactical? 
TUVIX: Remember, Captain, I do possess Tuvok's knowledge and expertise. And while I have no doubt that the crew misses Neelix's cooking, you need your most experienced tactical officer. That's me. 
EMH: If I may, Captain. Mister Tuvix 
JANEWAY: Tuvix? 
EMH: Apparently, that's what he likes to be called. Mister Tuvix is indeed in perfect health. And since I've collected all the data I need, there's no reason I can't continue my investigation without him for the time being. And according to my tests, he's quite correct when he says that he possesses Tuvok's knowledge and expertise. He also possesses Tuvok's irritating sense of intellectual superiority and Neelix's annoying ebullience. I would be very grateful to you if you would assign him some duty, any duty somewhere else. 
JANEWAY: Well, Mister Tuvix, I'm not ready to assign you to the Bridge just yet, but why don't you join the senior staff for our noon briefing, and we'll see how it goes from there. 
TUVIX: Captain, has anyone ever told you that you are as fair-minded as you are lovely? 
JANEWAY: As a matter of fact, Neelix has told me that occasionally. And if you really do possess his memories, you'd know that flattery will get you nowhere. 
[Briefing room]
TORRES: The transporter was functioning normally. Bio-filters, pattern buffers, everything checked out. 
JANEWAY: What about the problem with the molecular imaging scanners? 
KIM: According to the transporter logs, they were optimal at the time of transport. It was a perfectly routine beam-out sequence. No anomalies, no power overloads, no malfunctions. 
PARIS: Our scans of the planet's surface and atmosphere don't show anything out of the ordinary. 
CHAKOTAY: There's no evidence of any type of alien interference. Frankly, Captain, we're at a loss. 
JANEWAY: And the orchids, Kes. Have you found anything unusual about them? 
KES: Commander Chakotay brought back a few samples on the shuttle and I ran a biochemical analysis. They contain the same elements as many plants. Chloroplasts, lysosomal enzymes, cytoplasmic proteins, but there's nothing unusual. 
JANEWAY: There's never been an accident like this recorded in the entire history of transporter technology. I'm not willing to accept it as a random malfunction. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, I recommend we programme a holodeck simulation. Try recreating the accident. 
TUVIX: Sex. 
JANEWAY: I beg your pardon? 
TUVIX: What I mean to say is, and I apologise for cutting you off, Commander, I think we're on the wrong track. Kes, you said that the flowers you examined contained lysosomal enzymes. 
KES: That's right. 
TUVIX: According to Tuvok's botanical research, the presence of lysosomal enzymes could be evidence of symbiogenesis. 
KES: Symbiogenesis? 
JANEWAY: Symbiogenesis is a rare reproductive process. Instead of pollination or mating, symbiogenetic organisms merge with a second species. 
TUVIX: Andorian amoeba for instance. They're able to merge with other single-celled organisms to form a third unique species, a hybrid. 
KES: Like you. 
TUVIX: Exactly. 
JANEWAY: It's an interesting idea. But we're talking about microcellular organisms here. I've never heard of symbiogenesis occurring in a species as complex as a humanoid. 
TUVIX: Actually Captain, when you think about it, Neelix and Tuvok were broken down to a microcellular level during transport. DNA, protein, all in a state of molecular flux. 
KIM: And if the enzymes that cause symbiogenesis interacted with their DNA while they were in the matter stream, it might have caused their patterns to merge. 
JANEWAY: Like an Andorian amoeba. 
TUVIX: Just like that, Tuvix is born. 
JANEWAY: It's the best theory I've heard so far. It's the only theory I've heard so far, and it's worth investigating. Mister Paris, take a shuttle to the planet and collect additional flower specimens. 
PARIS: Yes, ma'am, but I'd recommend waiting until morning. The weather on the planet can get pretty nasty at night. 
JANEWAY: Very well. You'll depart at six hundred hours. 
(Paris leaves.) 
JANEWAY: Good work, Mister Tuvix. 
[Corridor]
TUVIX: Kes. 
KES: Oh, hello. 
TUVIX: Hello. 
KES: Do you need something? 
TUVIX: Oh, actually, I was wondering if you'd like to join me for dinner? 
KES: Well, I, er 
TUVIX: You've already eaten? 
KES: Well, no. 
TUVIX: You're not hungry? 
KES: Actually 
TUVIX: If memory serves me, Wednesday is the day that Neelix always cooked Trellan crepes. Your favourite meal? 
KES: That's right. 
TUVIX: Well, why break with tradition just because of a little transporter accident? 
[Mess hall]
(Chaos in the kitchen with everyone trying to cook their own dinner.) 
HOGAN: Somebody's eggs are burning. 
(A woman in command gold answers.) 
SWINN: Those are mine. Can you flip them for me? 
HOGAN: I can't find a spatula. 
SWINN: Just try tossing them. 
(Tuvix and Kes enter.) 
TUVIX: Er, why don't you have a seat. I'll be with you in a minute. Do you mind telling me what's going on here, crewman? 
HOGAN: We're making dinner. 
TUVIX: I see. All right, everybody out! 
HOGAN: On whose authority? 
TUVIX: Chief of Security or Head Chef. Take your pick. Out, out, out! Come, come, out. 
(Later, after everyone else has left and the washing up has been done.) 
TUVIX: So, you really enjoyed the crepes? 
KES: Oh, they were absolutely delicious. 
TUVIX: Don't you think Neelix always made them a little too spicy? 
KES: These were a little different than usual. Did you change the recipe? 
TUVIX: Oh, only slightly. I thought more moderate seasoning would allow the flavour of the mushrooms to come through. 
KES: I loved the mushrooms. 
TUVIX: Oh, I'm glad. I can't believe how disorganised this galley was. It's a wonder Neelix ever found anything. 
KES: Well, he says he has a system. But I guess you already know that. 
TUVIX: I admire your strength, Kes. 
KES: Why do you say that? 
TUVIX: I know I'm not Neelix, but I can posit with complete certainty that if the situation were reversed, if suddenly he found himself without you in his life, he'd be absolutely lost. 
(Tuvix takes Kes' hand.) 
KES: I have to go. Thanks again for dinner. 
[Bridge]
(Tuvix is at Tactical, in a normal uniform.) 
TUVIX: Good morning, Captain, Commander. 
JANEWAY: You're here bright and early, Lieutenant. 
TUVIX: Actually, I've been here since oh four hundred hours. I wanted to work on that proximity detector glitch in the security subroutine. 
JANEWAY: And how's it going? 
TUVIX: I managed to correct it. 
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok said it could take up to ten days to check out all the possible problems. How'd you fix it so fast? 
TUVIX: I had a hunch. 
JANEWAY: A hunch? 
TUVIX: That's correct. You'll have a report on your desk first thing this afternoon. 
KIM [OC]: Kim to Mister Tuvix. 
TUVIX: Tuvix here. 
KIM [OC]: We're just about ready to start the transporter tests if you'd like to join us. 
TUVIX: I'm on my way. Excuse me, Captain. 
(Tuvix leaves.) 
JANEWAY: Well, he's certainly fitting in, isn't he? 
CHAKOTAY: There's an old axiom. The whole is never greater than the sum of its parts. I think Tuvix might be disproving that notion. 
[Planet surface]
TORRES: Give me the flowers from the Airponics bay. 
PARIS: Here you go. One prize-winning chrysanthemum, one garden-variety clematis, and last but not least, one symbiogenetic alien orchid. 
TORRES: I never thought that botanical science class would come in so handy. 
(They lock the three plants into a specimen container.) 
TORRES: Torres to Transporter room one. 
[Transporter room]
TORRES [OC]: We're ready down here. 
KIM: Acknowledged. Energising. 
(Kes, Kim and Tuvix peer at the strange admixture that appears on the transporter pad.) 
[Sickbay]
EMH: We've made over a hundred attempts to reverse the symbiogenesis using the medical transporter, and each time this has been the unfortunate result. Complete cellular collapse. 
KIM: The genetic codes of the chrysanthemum and the clematis are so scrambled that the targeting scanners can't recognise the original patterns. 
TUVIX: I suppose it would be like trying to extract the flour, eggs and water after you've baked the cake. 
EMH: Obviously, in the case of Mister Tuvix, we're dealing with a much more complex organism than a flower. In effect, we're talking about recreating two humanoid life-forms without so much as a single discrete strand of DNA to start with. 
TUVIX: Are you saying I'm going to be this way forever? 
EMH: I am an incredibly skilled doctor, and I will continue to pursue a safe and effective treatment until I find one. But I won't lie to you. I'm not optimistic. It could take months, even years, to find a solution. And we must face the possibility that this condition is simply untreatable. I feel as though I've lost two patients. I'm sorry. 
JANEWAY: I'll inform the rest of the crew. 
[Kes's quarters]
(Kes is meditating in front of two large candles when the doorbell rings.) 
KES: Come in. 
TUVIX: I hope I'm not disturbing you. 
KES: It's all right. Er, please, sit down. 
TUVIX: Ocampan prayer tapers. For Tuvok and Neelix? 
KES: It's funny. If something happened to Tuvok, if Neelix were here, he'd be the first person to comfort me. And if I lost Neelix, Tuvok would be the first person to guide me spiritually. Now I don't have either of them. 
TUVIX: You have me, Kes. 
KES: Thank you, but 
TUVIX: I remind you of what you've lost. 
KES: It's not your fault. 
TUVIX: I know, and I'm trying to accept who I am now. Captain Janeway tells me there's a place for me on this ship, but I can't help feeling like, like some sort of impostor. 
KES: Maybe we can help each other get through this. 
TUVIX: That's what I've been hoping. I know this is going to sound very strange to you, perhaps even illogical, since in a way, we've only known each other a few days, but I want you to know I love you, Kes. 
KES: But I hardly know you. And besides, what about, what about Tuvok's wife for one thing? He was completely devoted to her. What happens when Voyager gets back home? Are you just going to forget her? 
TUVIX: I could never forget T'Pel. I carry Tuvok's love for her inside me. And I would never ask you to forget Neelix. 
KES: How can you talk this way? 
TUVIX: Because I carry Neelix's love for you inside me as well, and I always will. You heard the Doctor. It could be years before he finds a way to bring Tuvok and Neelix back, if ever. For you, that might be a lifetime. 
KES: Please go. 
TUVIX: I'm sorry. I should have controlled my emotions. All I really came to say is that I'll be here for you, if you need me. 
[Janeway's quarters]
(Janeway answers the door wearing her dressing gown.) 
JANEWAY: Kes. 
KES: Captain. I'm sorry. I shouldn't have bothered you this late. I'll, er, talk to you tomorrow. 
JANEWAY: Actually, I was having trouble sleeping. I could use some company. Would you like some hot tea? Please, sit down. I was just looking over some old letters Tuvok sent me when he was temporarily assigned to Jupiter Station. Most people would say his writing is cold, analytical, detached, but I've always found it to be concise, efficient, thoughtful. I hear his voice when I read the words. And Neelix. I'd become so fond of him, Kes. I can't imagine what you're going through. 
KES: I wanted to talk to you about Tuvix. He came to see me this afternoon. 
JANEWAY: Oh? 
KES: He said, he said that he loves me. 
JANEWAY: Well, I suppose I can see how that's possible, given the circumstances. 
KES: I wasn't sure what to say. At first, I was angry. But I know how he's trying to comfort me, and I know that he feels alone too. To tell the truth, he's a wonderful person. 
JANEWAY: Do you have feelings for him too, Kes? 
KES: No, I don't. I mean, how could I? I still love Neelix, and I'm not ready to give up on him, no matter what the Doctor says. 
JANEWAY: I know how you feel. You're experiencing what people on this crew have been going through since we first got stranded in this quadrant. Do we accept that we're separated from our loved ones forever, or do we hold onto the hope that someday we'll be with them again? 
KES: What do you do, Captain? 
JANEWAY: Oh, I struggle with it every day. Sometimes I'm full of hope and optimism. Other times. Then I dream about being with Mark and it's so real. Then when I wake up and realise it's just a dream, I'm terribly discouraged. In those moments, it's impossible to deny just how far away he really is. And I know that someday I may have to accept that he's not part of my life anymore. 
KES: So are you saying that I should just accept that Neelix isn't a part of my life anymore? 
JANEWAY: I would never tell you or anyone else to give up hope, Kes. I think the best thing you can do now is give yourself time. 
KES: Thank you, Captain. I'll go now and let you sleep. 
(They hug.) 
JANEWAY: My door is always open to you, Kes. 
Captain's log, stardate 49678.4. It's been two weeks since the transporter accident that created Mister Tuvix, and while it's still not entirely clear that he's with us permanently, he's certainly been doing his best to settle in. The crew seems to be growing accustomed to his presence, and he's proving to be a very able tactical officer who isn't afraid to express his opinions. While he's forging relationships with many of the officers, he seems to be keeping a respectful distance from Kes, allowing her to adjust to the circumstances on her own terms. As for my relationship with Tuvix, I've found him to be an able advisor who skillfully uses humour to make his points. And although I feel a bit guilty saying it, his cooking is better than Neelix's. My taste buds are definitely happy to have him around. 
[Kim's quarters]
(Clarinet practice.) 
EMH [OC]: Sickbay to Ensign Kim. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic Channel. 
KIM: How can I help you, Doc? 
EMH [on monitor]: Suppose I found a radioisotope that could selectively attach itself to specific DNA sequences. Could the surgical transporters be reprogrammed to lock onto those enhanced sequences and separate them from the remaining DNA? 
KIM: Well, I think so, but we'd have to modify the molecular imaging scanners and find a way to compensate for the higher levels of radiation. 
EMH [on monitor]: Thank you, Ensign. 
KIM: Wait a second. What's going on? 
EMH [on monitor]: It's pure speculation at this point. I'll let you know when I've learned more. 
KIM: This is about Tuvix, isn't it? I'm on my way. 
[Sandrine's]
TUVIX: Eight ball, corner pocket. That's game again, Commander. 
PARIS: We've created a monster. 
CHAKOTAY: Best out of five? 
(Kes enters.) 
TUVIX: Would you mind if we finish this later, Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: Not at all. 
(Paris takes Tuvix's cue.) 
KES: Hi. 
TUVIX: Hi. Well, how've you been? 
KES: Good days and bad days. You? 
TUVIX: Me too. 
KES: Listen, I'm sorry I've been so distant lately. 
TUVIX: Kes, you don't owe me an explanation. 
KES: I've been doing a lot of thinking. And I'm hoping that we can be friends. 
TUVIX: I would like that very much. 
KES: And I'd like our friendship to grow. 
TUVIX: You would? 
KES: Yes. But it's going to take time. 
TUVIX: I'm not going anywhere. 
EMH [OC]: Doctor to Lieutenant Tuvix. 
TUVIX: Tuvix here. 
EMH [OC]: Please report to Sickbay immediately. 
[Sickbay]
(Kim and the EMH are briefing Janeway, Tuvix and Kes.) 
EMH: Until late in the twenty first century, physicians administered barium to patients with certain gastrointestinal disorders. The radioactive properties of the barium made the lining of the intestines visible with a primitive imaging technology called X-rays. 
KIM: Instead of barium, we've come up with a radioisotope that attaches itself to the DNA of one of the merged species, but not the other. 
EMH: Then we simply beam out the selected DNA and segregate the two merged species. 
KIM: You see these? They used to be a single merged flower. 
KES: And you can use the same process? 
EMH: It will require a more detailed reprogramming of the transporter, but, yes, I believe we can restore Mister Tuvok and Mister Neelix.
KES: That's wonderful. Isn't that wonderful? 
EMH: I assure you, Mister Tuvix, there's nothing to worry about. We've accounted for every variable. 
TUVIX: Except one. I don't want to die. 
[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: It's funny. If we'd had the ability to separate Tuvok and Neelix the moment Tuvix came aboard, I wouldn't have hesitated. 
CHAKOTAY: Of course not. 
JANEWAY: But now, in the past few weeks, he's begun to make a life for himself on this ship. He's taken on responsibilities, made friends. 
CHAKOTAY: I count myself as one of them. 
JANEWAY: So at what point, did he become an individual and not a transporter accident? (doorbell) Come in. 
(Tuvix enters.) 
TUVIX: You wanted to see me, Captain? 
JANEWAY: Yes, Mister Tuvix. Please, sit down. 
TUVIX: I feel as though I have been dragged in front of the Numerian Inquisition. 
JANEWAY: Will you excuse us, Commander? 
(Chakotay leaves.) 
JANEWAY: We've just been discussing the unfortunate predicament that we're all facing, and I thought it was important to get your perspective before making a decision. 
TUVIX: Are you suggesting that this is your decision to make? 
JANEWAY: I am the Captain of this ship. 
TUVIX: Begging your pardon, Captain, it's my life. Isn't it my decision? 
JANEWAY: Aren't there two other lives to consider here? What about Tuvok and Neelix? Two voices that we can't hear right now. As Captain, I must be their voice, and I believe they would want to live. 
TUVIX: But they are living in a way, inside me. 
JANEWAY: It's not the same and I think you'd agree with me. They have families, friends, people who love them and miss them and want them back, just as I do. 
TUVIX: But restoring their lives means sacrificing mine. Captain, what you're considering is an execution. An execution, like they used to do to murderers centuries ago. And I've committed no crime at all. 
JANEWAY: Aren't you arguing for an execution too? Of Tuvok and Neelix. 
TUVIX: I'm here, alive. Unfortunate as it may be, they're gone. 
JANEWAY: And I have an opportunity to bring them back. 
TUVIX: Don't you think that I care about Tuvok and Neelix? Of course I do. Without them, I wouldn't exist. In a way, I think of them as my parents. I feel like I know them intimately. 
JANEWAY: Then you know Tuvok was a man who would gladly give his life to save another. And I believe the same was true of Neelix. 
TUVIX: You're right, Captain. That is the Starfleet way. And I know there'll be some people who, who'll call me a coward because I didn't sacrifice myself willingly. Believe me, I've thought of that. But I have the will to live of two men. Look at me, Captain. When I'm happy, I laugh. When I'm sad, I cry. When I stub my toe, I yell out in pain. I'm flesh and blood, and I have the right to live. 
[Mess hall]
(Kes is moving the food around on her plate.) 
TUVIX: Kes, I need your help. I've just come from the Captain, and she's thinking about forcing me to go through with the separation. If anybody can make a difference, Kes, it's you. She'll listen to you. We've helped each other through this and I know that you care about what happens to me. Please, Kes, you may be my only hope. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. 
KES: Captain, Tuvix has asked me to speak to you on his behalf. But I can't. 
JANEWAY: He shouldn't have put you in the middle of this. 
KES: But I am in the middle. I have been since the moment of the accident. I don't know how to say goodbye to Neelix and Tuvok. I know this sounds horrible, and I feel so guilty for saying it, and Tuvix doesn't deserve to die, but I want Neelix back. 
(Kes bursts into tears on Janeway's shoulder.) 
[Bridge]
(Tuvix enters, and every one turns to look at him. He goes to Tactical.) 
TUVIX: You're excused, Ensign. 
(The Ensign looks to Chakotay for confirmation.) 
TUVIX: Mister Paris, what is our present speed? 
PARIS: Warp six point five. 
TUVIX: I'd like to conduct a field test of the aft sensor array. Please, slow to impulse. 
PARIS: Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: Until the Captain makes a decision, Mister Tuvix is still the tactical officer. 
(Janeway comes out of her Ready room and goes to Tactical.) 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvix, I'd like to speak to you alone. 
TUVIX: Can I assume that you've come to a decision, Captain? 
JANEWAY: I have. 
TUVIX: I think we all should hear what you have to say. 
JANEWAY: Please come with me, Mister Tuvix. 
TUVIX: No. 
JANEWAY: I'm ordering you to come with me. Security to the Bridge. 
TUVIX: Commander, are you going to stand by and do nothing while she commits murder? Mister Ayala. Yes, Lieutenant Paris. You. Doesn't anyone see that this is wrong? 
(Security enter. Tuvix tries to run for a turbolift and they grab him.) 
JANEWAY: Let him go. 
TUVIX: Each of you is going to have to live with this, and I'm sorry for that, for you are all good, good people. My colleagues, my friends, I forgive you. 
JANEWAY: Commander Chakotay, advise the Doctor we're on our way to Sickbay. 
[Turbolift]
JANEWAY: Deck five. 
[Sickbay]
(Janeway and the security guards escort Tuvix in. Kim and Kes are waiting with the EMH.) 
EMH: I'm sorry, Captain, but I cannot perform the surgical separation. I am a physician, and a physician must do no harm. I will not take Mister Tuvix's life against his will. 
JANEWAY: Very well, Doctor. Please step aside. 
(Janeway goes to Kim, who is holding a hypospray.) 
JANEWAY: I assume this is the radioisotope. 
(Kim gives it to her.)
JANEWAY: Please sit down on this biobed. 
(Tuvix sits. Janeway looks straight into his eyes and administers the hypo. Then she goes to the medical transporter console.) 
JANEWAY: Locking surgical targeting scanners onto the isotope probe. Initiating separation sequence. Energising. 
(As Tuvix is beamed away, two figures are beamed in, both wearing command gold uniforms.) 
KES: Neelix! 
NEELIX: Hello, sweeting. 
(Neelix and Kes kiss.) 
TUVOK: Greetings, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok. Mister Neelix. It's good to have you back. 
(We stay with Janeway as she goes out into the corridor and pauses a moment before walking away.) 

