Episode Number: 315
The Voyager Transcripts - Favorite son
Favorite Son
Stardate: 50589.1
Original Airdate: 19 March, 1997
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Let's mark the coordinates of that trinary star. It'll be a good reference point for this sector. 
KIM: Didn't we already pass a trinary system like this? 
CHAKOTAY: Not that I remember. Why? 
KIM: It just seems familiar. 
TUVOK: Perhaps you're experiencing a paradoxical state-dependant associated phenomenon. 
JANEWAY: Deja-vu. 
KIM: Yeah, I guess so. 
TUVOK: Captain, there is a ship approaching, bearing two one five mark eight. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
TUVOK: Their shields are down and their weapon systems are unpowered. 
KIM: They're hailing us. 
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: My respects to you. I'm Alben, Captain of the Narada. 
JANEWAY: Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. 
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I thought I was familiar with every type of ship in this sector, but I've never seen anything like yours before. 
JANEWAY: We're not from around here. 
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: In that case, let me welcome you to Nasari territory. 
KIM: That ship's going to fire! 
CHAKOTAY: What? 
KIM: Captain, we've got to defend ourselves. 
TUVOK: I am detecting no threat. Tactical control has been moved to the Ops station. Our weapons systems are charging. 
KIM: Raising shields and firing phasers. 
(Kim blasts a hole through the Narada's starboard wing.) 
TUVOK: Direct hit. They are returning fire. 
JANEWAY: Red alert! 
(The two ships trade phasers and torpedoes.) 
JANEWAY: Hail them. We've got to put a stop to this. 
KIM: Captain, I had to act quickly. 
JANEWAY: You will explain yourself, Mister Kim, but right now you're relieved. Commander, you're at Ops. 
TUVOK: They are not responding to hails. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: There's pressure building up in plasma conduit G six. Ashmore, open up the emergency vent. I'll try to reroute the plasma flow. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Shields are down to seventy percent. 
JANEWAY: Get us out of here. 
CHAKOTAY: Warp engines are down. 
TUVOK: They are in pursuit. 
JANEWAY: Bridge to Engineering, what's the status of the warp drive? 
[Engineering]
TORRES: The plasma injectors are offline, Captain. We're working on them now. 
(A conduit blows up in Torres' face.) 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: A plasma conduit just blew in Engineering. Propulsion systems are down. They're reporting casualties. 
JANEWAY: Target their weapons array and fire. 
TUVOK: They've suffered damage to their weapon systems and shield emitters. They are moving away. 
JANEWAY: I want to know exactly what you thought you were doing. 
KIM: Their weapons were charging. They were about to fire at us. We could have been destroyed. 
TUVOK: Sensor logs indicate that their weapon systems were not powered. 
KIM: Then they must have fooled our sensors somehow. I detected a tetryon surge coming from their ship. 
TUVOK: There are many sources of increased tetryon emissions. It may have been an irregularity in their warp field. 
KIM: No! It was their weapons. That whole welcome to Nasari territory was a trick. 
CHAKOTAY: How could you know that? 
KIM: I can't explain that. I just knew. I was only trying to protect the ship. 
JANEWAY: I trust your intentions, Ensign, but your actions are going to need a little more justification. I want you to analyse the sensor logs, and see if there's any basis for Mister Kim's hunch. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: In the meantime I'm suspending you from duty. Go to Sickbay. Let the Doctor have a look at that cut. 
[Sickbay]
(Torres is on a biobed, unconscious.) 
KES: Still no respiration. Her blood pressure's ninety over forty and dropping. 
EMH: She has second degree burns on her lungs. I'll need to do a pulmonary regeneration. 
KES: Her neural tissues are starting to degenerate. 
EMH: Oxygen deprivation. We've got to get her breathing. Try ten milligrammes pulmazine. 
KES: No effect. 
EMH: Twenty milligrammes. 
(Torres gasps.) 
KIM: Is she going to be all right? 
EMH: Yes. Another patient snatched from the jaws of death. 
KES: Let me take care of that. 
KIM: B'Elanna almost got killed. It's my fault. 
KES: What do you mean? 
KIM: I started that fight. I thought I was doing the right thing. For a moment I was absolutely sure. 
KES: And now you're not? 
KIM: It's fading. What I did, and how I felt. It doesn't make any sense. And it could have been worse. What if they'd been more powerful than we were? I could have gotten everyone killed. 
KES: But none of that happened. B'Elanna got hurt, but she'll recover. Harry, you can't undo what's been done. 
KIM: You're right. Thanks. 
[Kim's dream]
(Memories interspersed with a view of a planet from space.) 
KIM: Raising shields and firing phasers. I can't explain it. I just knew. I never wanted you to get hurt. 
TORRES: That's supposed to make me feel better? 
KIM: I'm sorry. 
KIM'S MOTHER: Harry, I'm here. Don't worry, you'll feel better soon. I can make some soup for you, would you like that? I won't go away anywhere as long as you need me. We raised you to be a responsible boy. 
KIM: I try to be. 
KIM'S MOTHER: I'm suspending you from duty. 
KIM: Mom! 
(Kim wakes and goes to wash his face. He discovers interesting blotches around his hair and jaw lines.) 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Well, the good news is I won't have to quarantine you. There's no sign of an infectious agent anywhere in your body. 
KIM: And the bad news? 
EMH: If I don't find the cause of this rash, it will be difficult to treat. 
KIM: Last night I had a dream about being sick with the Mendakan pox when I was nine. Do you think this could be a recurrence? 
EMH: I've never considered dreams as a diagnostic tool before. Your unconscious mind sensed these developing symptoms and tried to provide an explanation? Such recurrences of this particular illness are rare, but I will consider the possibility. Hmm. 
KIM: What? 
EMH: In addition to your visible symptoms, your blood chemistry has been slightly altered. 
KIM: Is that serious? 
EMH: No, but it's not consistent with the symptoms of the Mendakan pox. 
KIM: Doctor, you don't think there could be any psychological effects from this disease, do you? 
EMH: Such as? 
KIM: I've been having this strange deja-vu feeling. Then yesterday on the Bridge I had this sudden instinct, and I acted on it by firing without orders. 
EMH: I'd certainly call that atypical behaviour. Your scans haven't shown any neurological abnormalities, but I will run a closer analysis. 
KES: Doctor, she's regaining consciousness. 
EMH: Good morning, Lieutenant. 
TORRES: Morning? What am I doing here? 
KES: There was an accident in Engineering. A plasma conduit exploded. 
EMH: I've treated you for second and third degree burns and several broken ribs. I expect you'll make a full recovery 
TORRES: Ow! 
EMH: after you've spent at least one more day in Sickbay. 
TORRES: This time Doctor, I'm not going to argue with you. Harry, what happened to your face? 
KIM: We're still trying to figure that out. 
TORRES: It's kind of cute. Makes you look like a speckled targ. 
KIM: B'Elanna, I'm really sorry you got hurt. 
TORRES: Hey, it's all part of the adventure of space travel, right? 
KIM: I know, but, er 
TORRES: What. What is it? 
KIM: Never mind. I'm glad you're going to be all right. 
TORRES: Thanks. 
EMH: I'm afraid I'm going to have to cut visiting hour short. Ensign, you can go. I'll contact you with the results of my analysis. 
KIM: Take care of yourself. 
TORRES: See you later, Spot. 
[Ready room]
KIM: Captain, I accept full responsibility for my mistake. I was completely out of line, even if I believed that other ship was charging weapons, which they probably weren't. 
JANEWAY: Harry, they were charging weapons. 
KIM: I was right. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok has confirmed that the tetryon surge matched the energy signature of that particulate beam they shot at us. They would have taken us completely by surprise. 
KIM: As soon as I saw their ship, I felt this sudden suspicion and loathing. I knew we were in trouble. 
JANEWAY: Which brings us back to the larger question. 
KIM: How did I know? I really wish I could tell you, Captain, but for the past few days this area of space has seemed more and more familiar to me. If I didn't know it was impossible, I'd swear I've been here before. 
JANEWAY: We'll have to consider every possible explanation. 
KIM: Oh, believe me, I have been. Space-time anomalies, alien telepathy, alternate realities. The list gets weirder as it goes on. 
JANEWAY: Then there's your sudden illness, which may not be a coincidence. 
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Janeway. There are three ships approaching of the same configuration as the Nasari vessel. 
JANEWAY: On my way. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They'll intercept in thirty six minutes. 
JANEWAY: Can we outrun them? 
CHAKOTAY: I doubt it. Engineering's still working on repairs. We could manage warp three at best. 
KIM: Let me see a star chart of this region. Head for this system. I think we can make it. 
JANEWAY: Is this another hunch, Ensign? 
KIM: We'll be safe there, I'm sure of it. 
JANEWAY: Tactical status. 
TUVOK: The aft shield emitter is offline, phasers are operational, but torpedo launchers are not. I strongly advise against a confrontation. 
JANEWAY: Follow Harry's course. Speed, as fast as we can go. 
(Later -) 
TUVOK: The Nasari vessels will overtake us in two minutes. 
CHAKOTAY: We're coming up on that star system. We'll pass it if we stay at warp. 
JANEWAY: Slow to impulse. We're making our stand here. 
CHAKOTAY: They'll enter weapons range in a few seconds. 
(On the viewscreen is the planet from Kim's dream.) 
KIM: Taresia. 
JANEWAY: What does that mean? Do you know this place? 
KIM: Yes. It was in my dream. 
TUVOK: There is another ship approaching from the third planet. 
CHAKOTAY: Is it Nasari? 
TUVOK: No, but they're on an intercept course and their weapons are fully powered. 
JANEWAY: Prepare for evasive manoeuvres. 
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. 
KIM: We'll be all right. 
(The new ship passes Voyager, firing at the Nasari.) 
TUVOK: The unidentified vessel has disabled all the Nasari ships. They are retreating. 
CHAKOTAY: What's your next trick, Harry. Pull a shuttlecraft out of a hat? 
JANEWAY: Open a channel to that ship. 
KIM: They're already hailing us. 
LYRIS [on viewscreen]: Alien vessel, this is the Taresian starship. There you are! Our sensors detected you aboard your ship. I'm glad to see you're safe. 
KIM: Do you know me? 
LYRIS [on viewscreen]: In a way. I know you are one of my people. 
KIM: What? 
LYRIS [on viewscreen]: You're Taresian. Welcome home. 
Captain's log 50732.4. The Taresians have escorted us back to their homeworld so we can continue to investigate their claim that Ensign Kim is a member of their race. 
[Taresia]
(The away team of Janeway, Tuvok, Kim and Paris are greeted by a phalanx of women.) 
LYRIS: Welcome. We're so glad to have you here. This is a day of celebration. Another Taresian has returned. 
ELIANN: Welcome. 
MALIA: You're home now, Harry. 
KIM: Er, wait a minute. I still don't understand how this is possible. 
JANEWAY: We'd like to ask some questions before we start celebrating. 
LYRIS: Of course. 
KIM: Our Doctor has found some genetic fragments in my DNA which could be part of an alien genetic structure. 
LYRIS: Yes, those are part of your Taresian genes. They're becoming active. We'd be happy to provide your Doctor with some DNA samples for comparison. 
KIM: What I want to know is how I could have gotten them. 
LYRIS: You were conceived here, on this world. While you were still an embryo, you were placed in stasis and taken to Earth to be implanted in the womb of an Earth woman. 
KIM: My mother. What did you do to her? 
LYRIS: She would have been completely unaware of the procedure. After the implantation process, the child begins to incorporate some DNA from the surrogate parent. You developed physically as a human, so she would have thought you were her natural child. 
KIM: But you're saying I'm not. 
(The only other male there speaks. He has two adoring women hanging on his arms.) 
TAYMON: We understand how you feel. Everyone here was born on other worlds. We all found our way back home like you, and discovered we're not quite who we thought we were. 
RINNA: Harry, maybe you'd like to sit down. 
ELIANN: Why don't you go get him something to drink? 
TUVOK: All of your children are born to alien parents? 
LYRIS: Yes, and when they return, each child brings an infusion of new genetic material as well as of first hand experience about another culture. 
JANEWAY: But Harry wasn't trying to return here. We came to the Delta Quadrant by accident. 
LYRIS: His DNA was encoded with certain instincts, including the desire to explore space. Your accident may have brought him here faster, but he always would have been driven to find his way back. You are the first to return from such a great distance. 
(Rinna gives Kim a small cup of liquid, and he strokes her cheek.) 
PARIS: Harry. 
KIM: That's how Taresians say thank you, isn't it? But how could I know so much about a place I've never been? 
LYRIS: It's been encoded into your Taresian genes. As you've gotten closer to home and seen familiar sights, your dormant genetic memory has been reawakened. 
RINNA: You'll remember more about us as you spend time here. 
ELIANN: I know it all seems strange now, but you are one of us, Harry. Can't you feel it? 
KIM: Yes, I can. 
ELIANN: Then stay with us a while and celebrate. Come, have something to eat.
PARIS: Is this the standard welcome home reception? 
TAYMON: For males it is. They're very rare. Our population is ninety percent female. 
PARIS: Really? 
JANEWAY: I want to thank you again for your help in combating the Nasari. Do you have any idea why they tried to attack us? 
LYRIS: They probably detected a Taresian aboard your ship as we did. For the Nasari, that's reason enough to destroy you. 
TUVOK: Are your people at war? 
LYRIS: We have no interest in fighting with them, but they seem determined to destroy us. Our defence capabilities prevent them from attacking directly, but they do everything in their power to stop our people from returning home. 
TUVOK: I see. That might explain Mister Kim's instinctively hostile reaction to them. 
LYRIS: It's a defence mechanism we've programmed into all our children. 
JANEWAY: Are the Nasari likely to attack us again when we leave your space. 
LYRIS: I think eventually they'll tire of waiting for you to come out. In the meantime, I'd advise you to simply stay here for a while. 
(Kim looks at the carvings in the coping around the room.) 
KIM: These are words. 
RINNA: Can you read them? 
KIM: Almost. 
ELIANN: Our written language is very complicated. I can teach it to you if you're interested. 
PARIS: Ah, that looks good. What is it? 
MALIA: Spiced hatana. I prepared it myself. Harry, try some. 
KIM: I'd like to find out if I have any relatives here. Maybe talk to my biological parents. 
ELIANN: I'm afraid none of us get the chance to meet our fathers. They're the ones who take the embryos to other worlds. Your father must have left here a very long time ago to make it all the way to the Alpha Quadrant. 
TUVOK: Ensign, we're transporting back to the ship. 
KIM: I'd like to stay for a while. I still have a lot of questions. 
JANEWAY: Of course, Harry. Contact us when you're ready. 
PARIS: We'll see you later. 
[Doctor's office]
(Molecular scan 4077, of course.) 
EMH: It's a positive match. These genetic fragments within Ensign Kim's DNA are clearly Taresian. 
JANEWAY: Why haven't they shown up in his medical scans before? 
EMH: I went back and checked his scans carefully. These fragments have apparently been disguising themselves as the recessive elements which normally within all DNA, but over the past few days they've become increasingly dominant over his human genes. 
TUVOK: And they've provided him with new knowledge? 
EMH: Yes, by forming neural connections in his brain. All humanoid babies are born with certain instinctive knowledge. How to recognise the shape of a face, how to hold their breath underwater. It all comes from their genes. 
JANEWAY: The Taresians must have found a way to manipulate genetic material to implant very specific knowledge into their children. 
EMH: It's scientifically plausible, but quite a feat of genetic engineering. 
JANEWAY: So what the Taresians have been telling us appears to be true. Harry is one of their people. 
EMH: And he's becoming more like them every day, both physically and neurologically. 
JANEWAY: I wonder how that's going to influence him when Voyager's ready to leave? Of course, when that might happen is another question entirely. Are the Nasari still out there? 
[Sickbay]
TUVOK: All three ships are holding position just outside the Taresian system. 
JANEWAY: Even if we can wait them out, we'd only be postponing another conflict. I'd much rather find a way to convince them we're not their enemies. 
TUVOK: Apparently the Nasari only consider Ensign Kim their enemy. Perhaps they would be more receptive to diplomacy if he were not aboard. 
JANEWAY: Contact Harry. Let him know we'll be leaving orbit. With any luck, we'll be back in a few hours with this matter resolved. 
[Taresia]
TAYMON: I joined the merchant fleet so I could get into space, because I wanted to explore every quarter of the galaxy. 
KIM: Like me with Starfleet. All my life, that's all I ever wanted to do. Now I guess I know why. Strange to think that some alien DNA fragments have been controlling my life. 
TAYMON: Not controlling. Influencing, yes. You probably inherited some Taresian traits like a talent for math or music. 
KIM: Yes, I always wondered why I loved music so much when my parents, my human parents, were practically tone deaf. 
(The girls inject Taymon with a hypospray, then go to Kim.) 
KIM: Wait, wait a minute. What is that? 
RINNA: Something to make you feel good. 
TAYMON: It's just a mild mood enhancer. No side effects. You'll like it. 
KIM: I think I'll pass, thanks. 
TAYMON: This is Malia. She's going to be my first wife. 
KIM: First? 
TAYMON: Ah ha. 
KIM: And you're already planning on a second? 
MALIA: And a third. We'll all be joined with Taymon tonight. What do humans call it when a man and women are joined? 
KIM: It's called marriage, but it's usually one woman with one man. 
MALIA: How unusual. I hope you come to our ceremony. 
KIM: I wouldn't miss it. 
TAYMON: Don't be afraid to indulge yourself, Harry. Everybody here wants you to be happy. You're important to us. 
KIM: That's what my human parents used to say to me. How special I was. They'd been trying to have a baby for years until I came along. They called me their miracle child. 
TAYMON: They were right. 
KIM: They spoiled me rotten, making sacrifices so they could give me everything I wanted. 
TAYMON: Sounds like you were pretty lucky. They loved you. 
KIM: But I never felt like I deserved that kind of devotion. I didn't see what was so special about me. I used to imagine that I had these hidden powers. I'd grow up to be stronger than a Klingon or able to read people's minds. Anything to make me more than just an average kid. 
TAYMON: Turns out your parents were right about you. You have been special all of your life. Feels pretty good, doesn't it? 
KIM: Yeah, it does. 
ELIANN: Let me relax your muscles for you. 
KIM: That would be great. 
TAYMON: I think you're going to learn to like it here, Harry. 
KIM: I already like it. 
ELIANN: Enough to stay? 
KIM: I don't know about that. I'm happy where I am on Voyager. 
ELIANN: You could be happy here, too. 
TAYMON: It's nothing you have to decide right now. Just enjoy yourself while you're here. 
ELIANN: This uniform seems so restrictive. Why don't you let me find you something more comfortable? 
KIM: Thanks. I mean (strokes her cheek.) 
[Bridge]
(Voyager is surrounded by the Nasari ships.) 
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I agree with you completely, Captain. There's no reason for further hostility between us. 
JANEWAY: I'm glad to hear it, and I hope you'll still feel that way when Ensign Kim is back on board. 
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I doubt we'll face that problem. Your crewmember won't be returning to you. 
JANEWAY: What do you mean? 
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: No one who comes home to Taresia ever leaves again. There are rumours about those people. 
JANEWAY: I'm not interested in hearsay. Are there any facts you can give me? 
ALBEN [on viewscreen]: I fire on any Taresian I see. If you take your crewmember back on board, I will attack your ship. My best advice to you is to forget him and be on your way. 
(Transmission ends.) 
CHAKOTAY Do you think there's any truth to those rumours he mentioned? 
JANEWAY: I don't know, but I'll feel better when we've got Harry back. Set a course back to the planet. 
(Later.) 
TUVOK: Captain, sensors indicate a high density polaron grid surrounding the planet. 
JANEWAY: Polaron grid? It wasn't here before. 
TUVOK: A network of satellites was activated to generate it. 
CHAKOTAY: Can we get through the grid? 
TUVOK: Unlikely. The polaric density is too high. 
JANEWAY: Hail them. 
TUVOK: Our communications are being blocked. 
CHAKOTAY: I guess we're not welcome anymore. 
[Taresia]
(The room is darkened. Women enter bearing staffs. Eliann lights candles.) 
ELIANN: Don't worry, you'll remember everything you need to know about the ceremony once it begins. 
(Taymon walks up to his three brides, who are wearing red veils.) 
TAYMON: Amal ulat. Let us be joined. 
(Everyone circles, clashing staffs occasionally. Taymon is marked with henna and blindfolded, and has his wrists tied behind his back.) 
MALIA: The joining is complete. 
(His wives lead Taymon away. The lights come on.) 
KIM: Why did they tie him like that? 
ELIANN: It's tradition. It symbolises binding their lives together, no longer looking for anyone else. Do you find it exciting? 
KIM: I guess I hadn't really thought of it that way. 
RINNA: You are going to stay for the celebration, aren't you? 
KIM: Actually, I should check in with Voyager. They'll be back by now. Kim to Voyager. This is Ensign Kim calling Voyager, do you read? 
LYRIS: Harry, I'm glad you could be here for this. 
KIM: It's been interesting. I was wondering if there's been any word from Voyager. 
LYRIS: Not that I know of. They probably haven't returned yet. 
KIM: It's been a long time. I hope they didn't run into trouble with the Nasari. 
LYRIS: Try not to worry. Your Captain may need some time to convince those people to see reason. 
KIM: Maybe so. 
LYRIS: Come, join the celebration while you wait. And of course you're welcome to stay the night. 
[Corridor]
CHAKOTAY: We've been able to poke some holes in the tachyon grid but they're too small to squeeze Voyager through. 
JANEWAY: Could a shuttle make it? 
CHAKOTAY: I doubt it. And even if one could, there's another problem. A Taresian ship is patrolling the other side of the grid. 
[Doctor's office]
JANEWAY: And we saw what they can do. 
EMH: Ah, Captain. When you raised some concerns regarding the Taresians, I began questioning their story about Ensign Kim's birth. 
CHAKOTAY: I thought you'd confirmed that he has Taresian DNA. 
EMH: I did, and he does. At least, he does now. But when I checked his previous microcellular scans, I found no traces of the Taresian genetic fragments. I can only conclude that he wasn't born with them. 
CHAKOTAY: Their whole story about embryo implantation was a lie. He's human. 
EMH: Yes, although maybe not for long. The alien DNA is continuing to alter his genetic structure. Within a few days he'll be indistinguishable from a native Taresian. 
JANEWAY: Do you have any idea how this new DNA could have gotten into his cells? 
EMH: The most likely transfer method would be a retrovirus. He was probably exposed during an away mission. 
CHAKOTAY: Wouldn't the biofilters pick up the virus and eliminate it? 
EMH: They may very well have, but once the virus transferred the DNA into his cells, killing the messenger wouldn't have helped. 
JANEWAY: Is there any way to determine exactly when he was infected? 
EMH: Indeed there is. The transporter buffer performs it's own version of a microcellular scan every time someone uses it. I reviewed the logs and found the first appearance of the alien genes in his molecular pattern on stardate 50698. 
CHAKOTAY: Our away mission to that planet where we found the vorillium. Harry was with us, and he was separated from the group for a while. 
EMH: He might have been infected by something he ate or drank, even something he touched. 
JANEWAY: So Harry gets infused with alien DNA which gives him the instinctive urge to come here. Then the Taresians tell him this elaborate story to make him believe he was one of them. Why? 
CHAKOTAY: Don't forget that welcoming committee on the planet. It sounds as if they're giving him every incentive to want to stay on Taresia. 
JANEWAY: And by keeping us away, they're making the decision for him. 
[Kim's room]
ELIANN: Here you are. I hope you'll be comfortable here. Is there anything else that I can get for you? 
KIM: No, I'll be fine, thanks. Goodnight. 
ELIANN: Get into bed. 
KIM: You're going to tuck me in? 
ELIANN: Tuck you in? 
KIM: It's a human custom. Parents tuck their children into bed, tell them a story or sing a lullaby to them to help them get to sleep. 
(Eliann dims the lights and fetches a small pot from the dressing table.) 
ELIANN: That's sweet. Lie back and relax. Lekaria san. Do you understand? 
KIM: Pleasant dreams. 
(She kisses him.) 
ELIANN: Now close your eyes. 
(She anoints his face with oil from the pot.) 
KIM: Mmm, that smells good. 
ELIANN: It's the essence of rikka flowers, it's very soothing. Lekaria san. (more kisses) Goodnight, Harry. 
[Kim's dream]
LYRIS [OC]: You're Taresian. Welcome home. 
ELIANN: I think you'll like it here, Harry. 
CHAKOTAY: We've been lucky to have you, Harry. 
JANEWAY: You really have been special all your life. 
KIM'S MOTHER: You know where your real home is, Harry. 
ELIANN: I think you'll like it here, Harry. Stay with me. 
(They fall onto his bed on Voyager to make love. Rinna is there, too. Eliann blindfolds Kim.) 
[Kim's room]
(Eliann and Rinna are with Kim on his bed.) 
ELIANN: It's all right, it's all right. You were dreaming. 
KIM: What are you doing here? 
ELIANN: We just want to help you relax and enjoy yourself. 
KIM: Look, I appreciate the offer, but I'd really rather be alone. 
ELIANN: I don't believe that. I think you've been spending too many nights alone, Harry. 
RINNA: You've got to stop holding yourself back. I know you have the same natural desires as any Taresian. Now you're free to act on them. 
ELIANN: You can't fight genetics. 
KIM: I can try. 
(He puts his boots back on.) 
ELIANN: I want you to choose me, Harry. 
RINNA: Choose both of us, then you'll only have to find one more wife. 
KIM: I'm not joining with you or with anybody. 
ELIANN: But that's the reason why you were drawn back home, Harry. To have children. Listen to your instincts. 
KIM: No. Like I told you before, I'm going back to Voyager. 
RINNA: You could never be as valuable to them as you are to us. We need you. 
ELIANN: You have a responsibility to your people to pass on your genes to the next generation. If there's anything your Taresian genes have given you, it's a sense of duty and loyalty. 
KIM: My loyalty is to my crew and my family back home. 
ELIANN: You don't belong with them anymore. This is who you are. One of us. Your place is here. 
RINNA: We'll make you glad you stayed. Think of Taymon, how happy he's been. Let yourself be happy. 
ELIANN: It's the right choice, Harry. This is the life you were always meant to have. 
(Rinna gives Kim a long, slow kiss.) 
KIM: Maybe this life wouldn't be so terrible. 
RINNA: It will be wonderful. You'll have everything you ever wanted, and a place of honour among your people. 
ELIANN: You'll never be alone again, Harry. We'll make sure of that. 
KIM: Three wives. I've got to think about my choice. 
ELIANN: I know you're attracted to me. There's been a connection between us since the moment you got here. 
KIM: You're right. I felt it too. I'm definitely considering you as one of my wives. 
(Kim sits Eliann on a chair, then takes Rinna's sash.) 
ELIANN: What are you doing? 
(Kim ties her arms behind her, then gags her.) 
KIM: Well, it's like you said before. This could be exciting. Remember, you both want to make me happy, don't you? 
RINNA: This is some kind of trick. 
(She goes to untie Eliann, so Kim hits her over the head with a vase.) 
KIM: Sorry about that. 
[Outside Taymon's room]
KIM: Taymon, it's Harry. I really need your help. 
[Taymon's room]
(Kim forces the doors open.) 
KIM: Are you in there? 
(He turns on the lights to discover a desiccated corpse on the bed, still with the blindfold on. He hears the door controls being operated, and grabs a metal instrument from the bedside table.) 
KIM: So this is what I should expect on my honeymoon? 
MALIA: It would have been much easier for you if you hadn't seen this. 
KIM: You mean easier for you to lead me to the slaughter. What'd you do to Taymon? 
MALIA: We must nucleate a large number of cells to collect enough genetic material for conception. 
KIM: That's why there are no men here. They don't leave with their embryos in stasis. They're killed. 
MALIA: Any father should be willing to sacrifice himself for the sake of his children, for the continuation of his race. 
KIM: Was anything you told me true? About Taresians being born on other worlds? About my being one of you? 
MALIA: It's true male children are very rare here, and that we seek out new DNA to sustain our race. We need males of other species, like you, who can be transformed into compatible mates. 
KIM: Transformed. That's what these genes are doing to me. 
MALIA: You'll be celebrated for your contribution. 
KIM: Don't count on it. You're going to take me to a communications terminal where I can contact my ship. 
(He takes her hostage. The other two wives enter.) 
KIM: Stay out of my way! 
MALIA: This won't work. You're too important to us. Whatever happens to me, they won't allow you to leave. 
(Kim pushes Malia into the other two, then runs out.) 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: If we hit the grid here, we'll have a few seconds before the patrol ship can move in to intercept us. 
JANEWAY: That doesn't give you much time to get a lock on Harry. 
CHAKOTAY: Then I'll have to be quick. 
JANEWAY: Are the shields ready? 
TUVOK: The new configuration is stable. 
JANEWAY: Set a course for the target coordinates and engage at full impulse. 
PARIS: Aye, Captain. 
TUVOK: We're disrupting the grid, but we need more speed to overcome the inertial resistance. 
PARIS: Increasing power. We're clear. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm not picking up Harry's comm. signal. Initiating level one bioscans of the surface. 
TUVOK: Captain, the Taresian ship is on an intercept course. 
JANEWAY: Battle stations. 
[Taresia]
(Kim is surrounded by women with staves, and they know how to fight with quarterstaffs.) 
LYRIS: This could have been a joyous occasion. Amal ulat! 
KIM: I won't let you do this to me! 
LYRIS: Harry, there's nowhere to go. 
(Then he gets beamed up.) 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: We've got him. 
PARIS: Setting a new course. 
TUVOK: The Taresians are in pursuit. 
JANEWAY: Return fire. 
TUVOK: Aye, sir. 
PARIS: Captain, we've another problem. Three Nasari ships coming straight at us. 
JANEWAY: Time to intercept? 
PARIS: Less than one minute. 
JANEWAY: Harry. 
KIM: Captain. 
CHAKOTAY: Welcome back. We could use your strategic intuition about now. 
JANEWAY: I'm counting on the Taresians not to back off from those Nasari ships. 
KIM: They won't. 
JANEWAY: Good. Let's hope they're more interested in fighting with each other than with us. 
PARIS: Five seconds to intercept. 
(Voyager sails past the fight.) 
TUVOK: We are no longer being pursued. 
JANEWAY: Let's not give them a chance to change their mind. 
[Mess hall]
KIM: But Odysseus had been warned that these women, the Sirens, sang a song so beautiful that any man who heard it would be lured to his death. 
NEELIX: So how did he get the ship past them? 
KIM: He told his crew to cover their ears so they couldn't hear the Siren's song. But he also had them tie him to the mast of the ship so he could listen himself without being led astray as they sailed past. 
PARIS: Anyone would have been drawn in by these Taresians. I have never seen so many beautiful women in my life. 
KIM: It wasn't just the women. There was also something exciting about having a new identity, and being more than just young Ensign Kim. 
NEELIX: Well I for one am glad to have the young Ensign Kim back with us. Although I still say you should have kept some of those spots. I thought they were very distinguished. 
PARIS: I don't see what's so bad about being you. You're good at your job, everybody likes you. 
KIM: Being likeable is fine, but sometimes I wish I could be more, oh, confident with women. More like you. 
PARIS: Like me? You might want to reconsider that, Harry. There could be prison time involved. Actually, since I've been on Voyager, I've tried to be more like you. 
KIM: That'll be the day. 
PARIS: I'm serious. You're my role model. You're reliable, hard working, extremely punctual. Did I mention polite? 
KIM: Thanks a lot. 

