Episode Number: 205
The Voyager Transcripts - Tattoo
Tattoo
Stardate: 48315.6
Original Airdate: November 6 1995
[Moon surface]
(A rock-strewn open area.) 
CHAKOTAY: Anything? 
TORRES: Not really. The polyferranide deposits are contaminated with astaline. 
TUVOK: Commander, there's something over here I think you should see. 
CHAKOTAY: (to Torres) Pack it up. We'll find better quality somewhere down the line. 
TORRES: That line is going to be cut short when our nacelles burn themselves up if we don't find it soon. 
CHAKOTAY: What have you got, Lieutenant? 
TUVOK: There have been other visitors to this moon recently. 
NEELIX: What do you think this is? Some kind of message? 
(Chakotay kneels by circle of stones with markings on the ground inside it. He traces the spiral and remembers - ) 
[Memory - Central American jungle]
(The same spiral and lines carved into a piece of dead wood.) 
KOLOPAK: I don't want you to go wandering off. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I'm not. I'm just looking at something. 
KOLOPAK: Antonio. 
(Kolopak speaks the local language to their one of their guides. Antonio replies in the same language.) 
KOLOPAK: He says you're quite a scout, a kep-o-ne. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I was just looking at a lizard when I saw it. 
KOLOPAK: Well, it was your eyes that saw it. No one else's did. That's the important thing. Come. I want you to understand this. It's a blessing to the land, an ancient healing symbol. A chamozi. They probably cut this down for firewood. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: The Rubber Tree People? 
KOLOPAK: Well, the closest thing to the ancient Rubber Tree People that we'll ever see. The people in this tribe are their descendants, just like we are. But they never left this jungle, and they rarely intermarry with other tribes. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: And they still use firewood instead of magnesite fuel like everyone else. 
KOLOPAK: Chakotay, they have chosen to live like this for centuries. That's why we are travelling on foot and not using a transporter. We honour the Sky Spirits who led our ancestors to this sacred land. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Sacred land? 
KOLOPAK: Yes. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Huh. The Sky Spirits must have taken a wrong turn somewhere. 
[Moon surface]
CHAKOTAY: Maybe it's a blessing to the land, for damaging it with the campfire. 
TUVOK: What is your basis for that conclusion, Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: Oh, just something somebody told me once. 
[Sickbay]
(Mother to be Ensign Wildman is lying on her side on a biobed.) 
EMH: Describe the nature of your pain. 
WILDMAN: In the lower back. It's tight. 
EMH: Choose the word that would best describe your pain. Burning, throbbing, piercing, pinching, biting, stinging, shooting 
WILDMAN: Shooting. It even goes down my legs. 
EMH: Hmm. 
WILDMAN: Is the baby all right? 
EMH: Hmm? Oh, certainly. Fine. Nothing to worry about. 
WILDMAN: Well, that makes me feel better. 
EMH: The position of the baby is simply putting pressure on your sciatic nerve. You may return to your post. 
WILDMAN: The pain makes it difficult to sit for any period of time. It's really quite uncomfortable. 
EMH: Elevating your legs when you sit should provide all the relief you need. 
KES: Perhaps a day of rest, off duty. 
EMH: Mmm. Ensign Wildman, according to your medical history, this is your first pregnancy, correct? 
WILDMAN: Yes. 
EMH: Well, Ensign, unfortunately, pregnancy causes its fair share of discomforts, and you'll have to learn to live with them. That's just the way it is. (to Kes) We'll schedule her for follow-up in two days. If the pain has not subsided on its own by then, we'll attempt to decrease the sensitivity of the nerve in that region. 
WILDMAN: Thank you, Doctor. 
KES: Call me day or night if this gets any worse. 
(Wildman leaves.)
KES: Don't you have any compassion for the way she feels? 
EMH: Every member of this crew is an adult. I will not coddle them. Compassion can be your department. Fortunately, you have enough for both of us. 
KES: You've never been sick or in pain. I just wish once in your life you could know what it's like, how it makes you feel vulnerable and a little afraid. Then you'd understand. 
(Kes leaves.) 
EMH: I don't have a life. I have a programme. 
[Chakotay's quarters]
(Chakotay and Janeway enter.) 
CHAKOTAY: I hated every minute of it. My father had dragged me all the way from our colony near the Cardassian border on this quest of his. Away from my friends, my home, and here we were in the middle of a brutal Central American jungle looking for the descendants of the ancient Rubber People. 
JANEWAY: It must have been very important to him. 
CHAKOTAY: Believe me, it was. And he was very disappointed that I didn't share his enthusiasm. He'd been tracking down the origins of our tribe for years. 
(Chakotay calls up two images on a wall monitor.) 
CHAKOTAY: The one on the right is the one I found today. 
JANEWAY: And now something you saw on that trip years ago shows up again on a moon's surface almost seventy thousand light years away. I don't suppose you have any theories that might explain this. 
CHAKOTAY: I can give you an official Rubber Tree People theory if you like. Sky Spirits. 
JANEWAY: Sky Spirits? 
CHAKOTAY: It's an ancient myth. Sky Spirits from above created the first Rubber People in their own image and led the way to a sacred land where the Rubber People would live for eternity. 
JANEWAY: You obviously don't put a great deal of faith in this explanation. 
CHAKOTAY: How much faith do you put in Adam and Eve? Hasn't science proved that all humans developed from a single evolutionary process? 
JANEWAY: That's what I was always taught. On the other hand, none of my teachers ever spent much time in the Delta Quadrant. B'Elanna tells me we've picked up a warp signature heading away from the moon. Think we should follow it? 
CHAKOTAY: I don't know that it's fair for me to put my own personal curiosity ahead of the ship's priorities. 
JANEWAY: We still haven't found the polyferranide we need to seal the warp coils. If these people have warp technology, they might be able to help us. Besides, we are in the business of exploring, aren't we? 
CHAKOTAY: My father would put on his expedition hat and shout, let's go. I guess that's good enough for me. 
[Bridge]
(In orbit of a planet.) 
KIM: Showing no life signs. 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, are you certain the warp signature ended here? 
PARIS: Positive, Captain. Harry, check your sensors. That look like some kind of power source to you? 
KIM: That is an unusually high EM reading for a natural occurrence. 
CHAKOTAY: Could be some kind of cloaking technology. 
JANEWAY: Mister Kim, transmit a continuous message on all frequencies identifying who we are, where we're from, and make it clear our intentions are peaceful. 
TORRES [OC]: Torres to Bridge. 
JANEWAY: Go Ahead. 
TORRES [OC]: We're in luck, Captain. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: My readings are showing high concentrations of polyferranide about ten kilometres below the surface. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. We'll send down an away team to continue the survey. Report to Transporter room three. 
TORRES [OC]: On my way. 
JANEWAY: Commander, if we meet any resistance, abort the mission. I have no intention of disturbing an alien race that would rather be left alone. 
CHAKOTAY: Understood. 
JANEWAY: On the other hand, if we can make contact, our goal is to get permission to begin excavation as soon as possible. 
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, you're with me. Mister Neelix, please report to Transporter room three for an away mission. 
NEELIX [OC]: I'll meet you there, Commander. 
[Transporter room]
TORRES: We may be out of luck. 
CHAKOTAY: Problem? 
TORRES: I'm not sure we can transport down. Every time we try to lock onto a transport site, a storm begins. 
CHAKOTAY: Storm? 
TORRES: We've tried seven different sites and as soon as we lock on, an electrical storm forms right above the location. When we change sites, a new storm forms and the old one dissipates. 
TUVOK: Might the transporter beam itself be causing an electrostatic charge in the atmosphere? 
TORRES: That's as good a guess as any. I can't explain it. We just can't transport. 
CHAKOTAY: Fine. We'll take a shuttle. 
[Shuttlecraft]
TUVOK: Once again, the storm seems to have formed as a direct result of our interaction with the atmosphere. The meteorological conditions changed radically when we began our entry sequence. 
TORRES: Shields are holding. 
NEELIX: It takes more than a little thunderstorm to bother one of your mighty Starfleet ships, huh? 
CHAKOTAY: Nothing we can't handle. Relax, Neelix. 
[Memory - Central American jungle]
(It is pouring with rain. The expedition are sheltering in a cave.) 
KOLOPAK: That's why they call it a rain forest. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Why do your Sky Spirits choose a place where it rains all the time? And it's hot, and there are so many bugs. 
KOLOPAK: It's said the Sky Spirits honoured the land above all else. Maybe it's because this land yields so many different kinds of life. Maybe they wanted us to become friends with everything in nature, including the bugs. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Sorry, Sky Spirits, I will never make friends with bugs. 
KOLOPAK: Maybe that's why they keep biting you. You're miserable. It was a mistake to bring you. I'm sorry. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry I can't be what you want me to be. 
KOLOPAK: From the day you came out of your mother, upside down, I knew the Spirits had chosen you to be a contrary. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: No one chooses for me. I choose my own way. And if that makes me a contrary, I'll have to live with it. 
KOLOPAK: If you have no spirits to guide you, I fear you will lose your way. 
[Shuttlecraft]
TORRES: Altitude, five thousand metres. 
CHAKOTAY: Decreasing speed to seven hundred twenty kph. Entering terminal approach phase. 
TORRES: Visibility still zero. Switching to enhanced terrain scanning. 
CHAKOTAY: Touchdown site scanned. Continuing descent. 
(Chakotay briefly sees a face in the storm clouds.) 
[Doctor's office]
KES: Computer, activate the Emergency Medical Holographic programme. 
EMH: Please state the nature of the medical emergency. 
KES: I thought we changed your programme so you wouldn't have to say that anymore. 
EMH: We did. But I became so uncomfortable trying to find new ways to break the ice, as it were, that I restored it. Let's just say it works for me. (Sneezes) 
KES: Doctor. 
EMH: Ah, you noticed. 
KES: Are holograms supposed to sneeze? 
EMH: Generally, no, but I have accepted your challenge. I've programmed myself with the symptoms of a twenty nine hour Levodian flu. Thus, I will gain the experience that you suggest would be beneficial to the performance of my duties. A-choo.1 Holographic tissue paper for the holographic running nose. Don't offer them to patients. Hmm. Interesting sensation, blowing one's nose. It's my first time. 
KES: I think this is very brave of you. 
EMH: Nothing of the sort. I intend it to be an educational experience. 
KES: I'm sure you'll learn a lot. 
EMH: I meant for the crew. I'm tired of the whiny, cranky attitudes we see around here. I intend to serve as an example of how one's life and duties do not have to be disrupted by simple illness. 
KIM: Doc, I don't feel so good. 
EMH: Neither do I, and you don't hear me complaining. 
[Jungle]
(The sun is shining on the broad leaved plants, and birds are singing.) 
TUVOK: We are not making any progress locating the source of that unusual power reading, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: Then I guess we'll have to search for these people the old fashioned way, with our eyes and ears. 
NEELIX: Is something bothering you, Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: No. It just reminds me of another jungle that I visited once. The Central American rain forest on Earth. It's the only other place in the universe that I've ever seen this flower. 
TUVOK: It appears to be a rare variety of Cypripedium, of the Asiatic genus Paphiopedilum.
NEELIX: I never knew you had such horticultural expertise, Mister Vulcan. 
TUVOK: In fact, I am, or more accurately I was, a breeder of prize Vulcan orchids. 
NEELIX: Then we have something in common. I breed orchids too. Don't they make the most exquisite salad? A touch of Baldoxic vinegar, pure heaven. 
CHAKOTAY: I hereby designate the two of you the team's botanical surveyors. Collect a sample of that flower. B'Elanna? 
TORRES: It's just what we've been looking for. Almost pure polyferranide. But there's a problem with crust reactivity. If we can't solve it before excavation, we might contaminate the entire yield. 
CHAKOTAY: Have Ensign Kim run an analysis from the ship. We should be able to. 
(A bird of prey flies overhead.) 
CHAKOTAY: I'll be damned. 
TORRES: What? 
CHAKOTAY: It almost looks like a hawk, doesn't it? 
[Memory - Central American jungle]
(A hawk flies overhead.) 
KOLOPAK: Listen to him, Chakotay. What does he say to you? He says, you are home, eh? 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I'm leaving the tribe, Father. 
KOLOPAK: What? 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I got to know a lot of the Starfleet officers patrolling the Cardassian border. I asked Captain Sulu if he would sponsor me at Starfleet Academy. 
KOLOPAK: And he would do such a thing without even discussing it with me? 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I told him I had your approval. 
KOLOPAK: Ah. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I kept him as far away from you as I could. 
KOLOPAK: I take it you've been accepted by the Academy? Well, you've never fully embraced the traditions of our tribe, I know that. And you've always been curious about other societies, and that is why I allowed you to read about them. Because I believe that ignorance is our greatest enemy. But to leave the tribe? 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Our tribe lives in the past. A past of fantasy and myth. 
KOLOPAK: That past is a part of you, no matter how hard you try to reject it. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Other tribes have learned to accept the twenty fourth century. Why can't ours? 
KOLOPAK: It is not the place of a fifteen year old boy to question the choices of his tribe. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I know. That's why I have to leave. 
KOLOPAK: You will never belong to that other life. And if you leave, you will never belong to this one. You'll be caught between worlds. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: I ask for your blessing, Father. 
(Their guides call to them. They have found a wooden structure in a small clearing.) 
[Jungle]
NEELIX [OC]: Botanical surveyor number one to Commander Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: Go ahead, Neelix. 
NEELIX [OC]: You won't believe what I've found. I think it's argh! Ow! 
(Chakotay and Torres run to find Neelix on the ground, clutching his face. There is a gouge across his left eye.) 
CHAKOTAY: Neelix, what the? 
NEELIX: The bird! The bird! 
(The hawk swoops in again. Chakotay gets a glimpse of a face before he waves his arms and the bird flies off.) 
NEELIX: My eye. Oh. 
CHAKOTAY: Away team to Voyager. 
PARIS [OC]: Go ahead, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: Emergency beam out. Get Neelix to Sickbay. 
PARIS [OC]: Acknowledged. 
(The beam out is successful.) 
TUVOK: Commander. 
(He has found an elegant curved structure that looks like it is made of wood, and some hi-tech pieces of equipment nearby.) 
[Sickbay]
(The EMH's nose is bunged up and he is starting to lose his voice.) 
EMH: You're very lucky this bird didn't snatch your eye right out of the socket. We have no spare Talaxian eyeballs. 
NEELIX: Is something the matter with him? 
KES: The Doctor gave himself the Levodian flu to see what it's like. 
NEELIX: Is he contagious? 
EMH: It's a holographic simulation, not an actual virus. There's no need for concern. You may sit up. 
NEELIX: Touchy, isn't he? 
KES: He isn't feeling well. 
EMH: I don't require any compassion, thank you very much. I have been experiencing these symptoms for nearly twenty hours, and I am in complete command of my faculties. (Explosive sneeze.) You may both leave now. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Kim believes if we bombard the crust with antithoron radiation, we can decontaminate it before excavation begins. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Then all we need to do is locate these people and get their permission. 
JANEWAY: Any progress? 
[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: Everything we've found here suggests the people who live in this village left recently and in a hurry. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Do you believe our arrival frightened them? 
CHAKOTAY: We can't discount that. 
[Bridge]
KIM: You'd think with warp technology, they would have encountered other alien life before now. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: You'd think 
[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: With warp technology, they wouldn't be living like this. Captain. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Have you had any unusual readings that might explain the images of a strange face I've been seeing? 
JANEWAY: Images? 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Very odd. Like the flash of a memory, but it's someone I've never met. 
JANEWAY: Nothing unusual has shown up on the ship's sensors. 
[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok hasn't detected any telepathic activity either. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: If you want to call it a day, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: No. 
[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: I think we'll press on for a while. If there are any other problems, I'll let you know. Chakotay out. 
TORRES: The dwellings are constructed with an alloy polymer matrix we've never encountered before, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: They're out there. Our tricorders may not tell us so, but they're out there. Lay down your weapons. 
TUVOK: Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: Disarm. I want them to see that we don't pose any threat to them. 
TUVOK: May I remind the Commander that Starfleet protocol demands that away teams remain armed and ready to defend themselves until contact is made. 
CHAKOTAY: I know all about Starfleet protocol, Lieutenant. 
TUVOK: As we have not yet established the inhabitants' intentions, it would not be a logical course of action. 
CHAKOTAY: The logical course isn't always the right course. Lay down your weapons in plain sight. Those are my orders. 
TUVOK: Would you at least permit me to advise the Captain to move the ship into a stronger tactical position? 
CHAKOTAY: Negative. We'll show no force of any kind. 
TUVOK: For the record, I must take exception to these orders. 
CHAKOTAY: Noted. 
[Memory - Central American village]
(Kolopak's party lay down their weapons.) 
KOLOPAK: They have reason to be scared. Who can blame them? Their history, our history, is filled with conquerors who brought slavery and disease and death. 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Maybe we should just leave them alone. 
(Antonio speaks in his language. Kolopak replies, then holds up his hands and speaks to anyone that might be hiding in the jungle. Faces appear in the foliage.) 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: Father. 
(Chakotay runs for the weapons, but a well aimed spear stops him. Kolopak drops his backpack, takes off his hat, kneels and clears a piece of ground. The tribal leader comes forward to watch Kolopak draw the combination of spirals and lines in the soil.) 
KOLOPAK: A chamozi. 
(Finally, we get subtitled translations of the local language. Kolopak also uses sign language.) 
KOLOPAK: I honour the sacred land of the Sky Spirits. I have come very far to find you, my cousins. 
CHIEF: How do you know our language? 
KOLOPAK: It is the language of my ancestors. 
CHIEF: We are of the same hand. 
(They stand. The Chief takes the spear, speaks, and throws it away. The rest of the tribe come to greet their visitors.) 
[Clearing]
(Chakotay raises his hands, and a strong wind starts to blow.) 
TUVOK: I have no explanation, Commander. There is no storm activity indicated. 
CHAKOTAY: All right. Let's get back to the shuttle. 
[Jungle]
(Chakotay gets separated from Torres and Tuvok, then sees a young man running through the trees.) 
CHAKOTAY: Hey, wait! 
(A large tree falls, pinning him to the ground.) 
TUVOK: We will never make it. 
TORRES: Where's Chakotay? 
TUVOK: Away team to Voyager. Emergency beam out. 
(Chakotay's comm. badge, which had fallen off his uniform, is also beamed away.) 
[Bridge]
TORRES: He was right behind us. I don't understand what could have happened to him. 
JANEWAY: Was he wearing the comm. badge the last time you saw him? 
TUVOK: Just before the storm, he was using it to speak with you, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, what are the current surface conditions near the shuttle. 
PARIS: Surface conditions are back to normal, Captain. Winds, two knots. But I can't find any sign of their shuttle. It's not where they landed it. 
JANEWAY: And it isn't airborne? 
PARIS: No, ma'am. 
JANEWAY: I'll lead the away team back. Mister Tuvok, Lieutenant, you're with me. Mister Paris, you have the 
EMH [OC]: Captain Janeway, this is the Doctor. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic channel. 
JANEWAY: What is it, Doctor? 
(The EMH's voice is almost gone.) 
EMH [on monitor]: Something terrible has happened. My programme (coughs) 
JANEWAY: Doctor, I think you're carrying this experiment of yours a little too far. 
EMH [on monitor]: One hour too far to be precise. I very specifically programmed a twenty nine hour Levodian flu, and it has now been thirty hours. 
JANEWAY: Doctor, I'm sorry but we have more pressing matters to 
EMH [on monitor]: You can't leave me like this. I need help. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Now, get me somebody who can tweak the computer and make me feel better, immediately. (cough, splutter) 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Very well. Mister Kim is on his way. Try to relax 
[Sickbay]
JANEWAY [OC]: Doctor. 
KES: I'll see to that, Captain. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: I'm going to need you with me, Kes. Prepare a medkit and bring it with you to Transporter room three. Commander Chakotay is still on the surface and may be injured. 
[Sickbay]
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway out. 
(Kes gets the EMH to bed.) 
EMH: Oh, I don't understand it. I ran a computer diagnostic and it said my programme was fine. 
KES: Just rest, Doctor. 
EMH: Oh. 
KES: Here's a cool holographic towel for your forehead. 
EMH: Thank you. Thank you so much. Please, don't go yet. 
KES: I have to. The Captain 
EMH: I feel like I'm fading. Just fading away. You don't know what that means to a hologram. 
KIM: What seems to be the problem? 
EMH: Oh. My simulated virus is leading me to a simulated death. 
KES: It's nothing to worry about. I just added a couple of hours to his computer programme. He'll be fine in about forty five minutes. Knowing when it would end didn't exactly make it a fair test, did it, Doctor? 
(Kes leaves.) 
EMH: She is far more devious than I ever suspected. (cough) 
[Jungle]
(The storm has abated. Chakotay wakes and wriggles out from under the fallen tree, then discovers his comm. badge is missing. He gets out his tricorder.) 
CHAKOTAY: No shuttle. Well, at least they got out okay. 
[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: You have nothing to fear from me. Talk to me. Let me see you. 
(He walks into the structure and starts to take off his clothes.) 
[Memory - Central American village]
(The villages help their visitors take off their clothes.) 
CHIEF: Make our cousins one with us. 
(The chief draws a familiar tattoo design on Kolopak's forehead. All the tribe wear it. Chakotay struggles to stop the women stripping him.) 
YOUNG CHAKOTAY: No, thank you. 
(The women leave him. Kolopak's transformation is complete.) 
CHIEF: He is one of us. 
[Clearing]
(Chakotay is naked.) 
CHAKOTAY: You have nothing to fear from me. Talk to me. Let me see you. 
(There is a garment nearby. He puts it on.) 
[Transporter room]
TORRES: I don't understand it. It's the same thing that happened the first time we tried to go down. A storm develops wherever we try to lock on. 
JANEWAY: Why would we have the ability to beam people up, but not beam them down? 
TUVOK: I believe we have seen enough to discern a pattern, Captain. The logical conclusion is that someone is controlling the elements of nature to ward us off. The transporter anomaly is evidence of this conclusion. We are allowed to leave the planet, but not to approach. 
JANEWAY: If that's true, I'd be happy to respect their wishes. But unfortunately, I have a missing crewman to get back first. Janeway to Paris. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Yes, Captain. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Mister Paris, we're going to land Voyager on the surface. Take us into the atmosphere. 
PARIS: Acknowledged. Beginning entry sequence. 
KIM: I'm reading a electrical storms forming all around us. 
PARIS: Adjusting flight path. 
KIM: The barometric pressure is continuing to fall. We're looking at monsoon conditions out there. 
(The storm is building on the surface. Chakotay explores and finds a cave, but lightning strikes are guarding the entrance. He takes a chance and manages to dodge inside.) 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, the shuttle crew didn't report turbulence this severe during their landing. 
PARIS: I'm doing the best I can, Captain. I'm showing gale force winds out there. 
TUVOK: It is conceivable that the aliens have been able to intensify their response now that they are familiar with our capabilities. 
JANEWAY: Red alert. 
PARIS: Inertial dampers are offline. We seem to be caught in some kind of vortex. I can't maintain altitude. 
KIM: Captain, it's a cyclone. 
PARIS: Altitude, twenty thousand metres and falling. I can't get us out of this thing, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Bridge to Torres. We need more power 
[Engineering]
JANEWAY [OC]: From the engines. 
TORRES: I've got them running twenty percent over rated maximum. 
[Bridge]
TORRES [OC]: Captain. 
JANEWAY: It's not enough. 
KIM: Could we go to low warp under these conditions? 
PARIS: The ship might make it without inertial dampers, but we'd all just be stains on the back wall. 
TORRES: I can try to 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Augment the engines with power from the auxiliary fusion reactors, but it's going to take at least twenty minutes. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: How much time do we have, Mister Paris? 
PARIS: Altitude at eighteen thousand metres and falling. At this rate, we're looking at about ten minutes. 
[Cave]
CHAKOTAY: If you can hear me, speak to me. 
(A light shines on Chakotay, and a voice speaks in Rubber People language.) 
CHAKOTAY: I'm sorry. I don't know the ancient language of my people. I can't understand. 
(Beings enter behind him, still talking. Chakotay remembers the symbol his father drew in the soil, and its name.) 
CHAKOTAY: Chamozi. 
(The leader speaks to him.) 
CHAKOTAY: Chamozi. 
(The leader turns Chakotay's face to look at his tattoo. The same mark is on his forehead, too.) 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Altitude, six thousand metres. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Approach vector is too steep. Discontinue landing sequence. 
PARIS: Would somebody turn that off, please? 
JANEWAY: Engineering. Report. 
[Engineering]
JANEWAY [OC]: We need that extra power, B'Elanna. 
TORRES: Ten minutes. I just need 
[Bridge]
TORRES [OC]: Ten minutes. 
[Cave]
(The leader puts a device in Chakotay's hand.) 
ALIEN: Do you understand my words now? 
CHAKOTAY: Yes. 
ALIEN: Explain the face marking. 
CHAKOTAY: I wear it to honour my father. He wore it to honour his ancestors. 
ALIEN: Ancestors. You are human? 
CHAKOTAY: Yes. 
ALIEN: Are there others on your world with this mark? 
CHAKOTAY: Yes. Not many, but some. 
ALIEN: We were taught all of them had been annihilated. We were taught your world had been ravaged by those with no respect for life or land. 
CHAKOTAY: There was a time when that was true, but no longer. 
ALIEN: He claims to be a descendent of the Inheritors. 
CHAKOTAY: Inheritors? 
ALIEN: The ones our ancestors chose to honour. I'm surprised you have no memory of the Inheritors. One of our gifts was the memory. If you are a descendent, you should remember. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm not sure I understand. 
ALIEN: Perhaps it has been lost over time. 
(The alien leader puts his hand on Chakotay's chest. Chakotay sees an image of another alien doing the same to a native in animal skins, in the Arctic.) 
ALIEN: Forty five years ago, on our fist visit to your world, we met a small group of nomadic hunters. They had no spoken language, no culture, except the use of fire and stone weapons. But they did have a respect for the land and for other living creatures that impressed us deeply. We decided to give them an inheritance, a genetic bonding so they might thrive and protect your world. On subsequent visits, we found that our genetic gift brought about a spirit of curiosity and adventure. It impelled them to migrate away from the cold climate to a new, unpeopled land. It took them almost a thousand generations to cross your planet. Hundreds of thousands of them flourished in their new land. Their civilisation had a profound influence on others of your species. But then, new people came with weapons and disease. The Inheritors who survived scattered. Many sought refuge in other societies. Twelve generations ago, when we returned, we found no sign of their existence. 
CHAKOTAY: My people called you the Sky Spirits. Why have you been hiding from us since we landed here? 
ALIEN: When we heard your message, who you were, observed you probing our land, we believed you were a threat. We thought you would annihilate us as you had the Inheritors. 
CHAKOTAY: Our message was supposed to communicate peaceful intentions. 
ALIEN: We were taught that is the way human conquerors often introduce themselves. 
CHAKOTAY: As I said, we've tried to change our ways since the last time you stopped by. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Altitude, two thousand metres. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Stand by, Bridge. We're initiating the transfer now. 
[Bridge]
KIM: I'm showing an eight percent boost in the engines. 
JANEWAY: That's all? 
TORRES [OC]: The fusion 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Reactors are nearly drained. Fighting the storm is taking every reserve we have. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Altitude, one thousand metres. 
KIM: Impact in twenty seconds. 
JANEWAY: B'Elanna. 
[Engineering]
KIM [OC]: Impact in fifteen seconds. 
TORRES: I'm sorry, Captain. That's all we've got. 
[Bridge]
KIM: Impact in ten seconds. 
(The shaking suddenly stops.) 
JANEWAY: Report. 
PARIS: We're free. Gaining altitude. Two thousand metres, twenty five hundred. Dampers back online. 
KIM: The storms have completely dissipated. There's not a cloud in the sky. 
JANEWAY: Stand down Red alert. Anybody have an explanation? 
TUVOK: It appears the inhabitants of this planet have decided to make contact, Captain. The cloaking device has been turned off and we are showing an alien population. I have located the shuttle. It may be possible to locate Commander Chakotay without landing. 
JANEWAY: Establish a search pattern, Mister Paris. 
PARIS: Yes, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Begin scanning for human life signs. As soon as you find Chakotay, we'll send down an away team. 
[Clearing]
CHAKOTAY: My ship will be coming for me soon. 
ALIEN: I'm sorry we cannot permit you to extract all the materials you need. 
CHAKOTAY: You were generous to offer as much as you did. 
ALIEN: You have a long journey ahead. It took us more than two generations to reach your world. 
CHAKOTAY: I wish I could see my father's face right now. 
ALIEN: Does he still live? 
CHAKOTAY: No. He died fighting enemies who would have taken our home colony. Our tribe moved there a few hundred years ago. 
ALIEN: So he honoured the land just as his ancestors did. 
CHAKOTAY: Yes. Yes, he did. We weren't on very good terms when he died. Once he was gone, I didn't know how to reconcile our differences, how to heal our old wounds. I returned to my colony and continued the fight in his name. I took the mark that he wore to honour his ancestors. I spoke to him in my vision quests, but he never answered. Until now. 
(The alien kneels down and starts drawing in the soil.) 
ALIEN: Chamozi. 
(The away team of Tuvok, Torres and Kes arrive.) 
TUVOK: Commander? 
CHAKOTAY: Put those away. 
(Chakotay and the alien embrace, then a hawk flies over head, calling.) 
KOLOPAK [OC]: Listen to him, Chakotay. Do you hear what he says to you? 
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Father. I hear him. I finally hear him. 
TUVOK: Four to beam up, Voyager. 

