Episode Number: 214
The Voyager Transcripts - Dreadnought
Dreadnought
Stardate: 49447
Original Airdate: February 12 1996
[Sickbay]
(Ensign Wildman is having a pre-natal check-up.) 
WILDMAN: I've been considering naming him after my husband. It's been a tradition in his family for over five generations. 
KES: I'm sure he'd be very pleased. 
WILDMAN: My husband's name is Greskrendtregk. He's Ktarian. 
EMH: Choosing a name is no easy matter. I speak from experience. 
WILDMAN: Have you had any progress, Doctor? 
EMH: I've reviewed historical, literary and anthropological databases from over five hundred worlds and have yet to find a suitable name. However, I may want to give some thought to Greskrendtregk. 
WILDMAN: To be honest, I've been thinking of something simpler. What do you think of Cameron? 
KES: I like it. 
EMH: Cameron, from the ancient Celtic term for one whose nose is bent. 
WILDMAN: What about Frederick? 
EMH: Frederick. Very distinguished. However, it bears a close resemblance to a rather impolite term on the Bolian homeworld. 
WILDMAN: It doesn't have to be a human name. I like Sural. It's Vulcan. 
EMH: Yes, unfortunately it was also the name of a dictator on Sakura Prime, famed for beheading his rivals, and his parents. 
KES: You won't have any objection to Benaren. 
EMH: You're right. I've never heard that name before. 
WILDMAN: I think it's lovely. Is it Ocampan? 
KES: Benaren was my father's name. He was the greatest inspiration of my life. 
JANEWAY [OC]: All science officers. Please report to your stations. 
EMH: Your scans look fine, Ensign. We'll see you in a week. 
WILDMAN: Thank you. Greskrendtregk would make a good middle name, don't you think? 
(Wildman leaves.) 
EMH: You never suggested your father's name to me. 
KES: I thought you were only considering human names. 
EMH: Ah. Well, you were mistaken.
KES: If you like Benaren there's no reason you can't use it too. I'm sure she won't mind. 
EMH: Won't mind that I just usurped her baby's name the moment I heard it? Thank you, but no thank you. 
KES: My uncle's name was Elrem. I once knew a boy named Tarrik. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: There's not much left of whatever it was. From the amount of debris I'd guess it was a small ship, no bigger than a shuttlecraft. 
KIM: I'm not reading any organic material in the debris field. It must have been an unmanned vessel. Possibly a probe. 
JANEWAY: Any idea what happened to it? 
TUVOK: The high residual energy signature indicates repeated weapons fire. 
KIM: Captain, the wreckage is composed primarily of duritanium polyalloy. 
JANEWAY: Duritanium? 
CHAKOTAY: I haven't seen many weapons that could do that kind of damage to a duritanium hull. 
JANEWAY: Transport some samples of the debris to Engineering for analysis. 
CHAKOTAY: Continuous scans, Lieutenant. We don't want whoever did this to catch us by surprise. 
[Engineering]
JANEWAY: Any conclusions? 
CHAKOTAY: Afraid so. 
TORRES: We've identified the signature left by the weapons fire. There's no question. It was Cardassian. 
JANEWAY: Cardassian! Could Seska be responsible? 
TORRES: No, Captain. I am. 
[Briefing room]
TORRES: The probe was destroyed by an experimental Cardassian weapon from the Alpha quadrant. 
(Paris runs in, late.) 
PARIS: Sorry. 
TORRES: I recognise it's signature because, because I know this weapon very well. Chakotay and I got our hands on it when we were fighting the Cardassians. 
KIM: How did it get here? 
CHAKOTAY: Probably the same way we did. 
TORRES: The last time we saw it, it was heading in the same direction in the Badlands where the Caretaker picked us up. 
CHAKOTAY: Originally the Cardassians sent this thing to destroy a Maquis munitions base. We nicknamed it Dreadnought. It's a self-guided tactical missile carrying a charge of a thousand kilos of matter and another thousand of antimatter. 
TUVOK: Enough to destroy a small moon. 
TORRES: Now add to that one of the most sophisticated computer systems I've ever seen. They made this missile adaptable, evasive, armed with it's own defensive weaponry. In other words, unstoppable. 
NEELIX: So, how did you stop it? 
CHAKOTAY: We didn't. It got through all our defences. Worked like it was supposed to except for one minor detail. It didn't go off. 
TORRES: Leave it to the Cardassians to build such an incredibly advanced tactical weapon and then arm the warhead with an old kinetic detonator. 
CHAKOTAY: The missile skipped off into the atmosphere and quietly went into orbit. 
TORRES: I got inside it and reprogrammed the computer. Hell, I didn't just reprogramme it, I changed it's identity. I made it forget about being Cardassian. Now it was working for the Maquis. 
CHAKOTAY: And we gave it a new mission. To destroy the Cardassian fuel depot on Aschelan Five. But it never made it out of the Badlands. We thought it had been destroyed in one of the plasma storms. 
JANEWAY: So how do we stop this weapon before it causes any more damage? 
TORRES: Dreadnaught masks its warp trail with a randomised EM field, but I can modify our navigational sensors to cut through that. 
PARIS: And what are we going to do with it once we find it? 
TORRES: I get back inside it. I know all the security codes. I installed them myself. 
JANEWAY: Lieutenant Paris can assist you with the navigational sensors. Keep me informed. Dismissed. 
CHAKOTAY: Lieutenant. I expect everyone to show up for meetings on time and properly dressed. 
(Paris nearly says something, then changes his mind.) 
PARIS: Yes, sir. 
[Engineering]
PARIS: There's still a lot of distortion in the upper frequencies. Better. Now let's try filtering out the ion radiation. B'Elanna? You must be really worried about catching this thing. 
TORRES: Chakotay wasn't telling the whole truth. We didn't send Dreadnought on a mission against the Cardassians. I was the one who sent it, without asking him. 
PARIS: You were afraid he'd say no. 
TORRES: After I did it, he pulled me aside and I was ready to defend myself. I was so sure that I had anticipated everything that could possibly go wrong. I even programmed it to warn Federation ships to stay out of its way, in my own voice. 
PARIS: Your voice? 
TORRES: Listening to that Cardassian computer's voice was driving me crazy. 
PARIS: I don't blame you. 
TORRES: Anyway, Chakotay looked at me. I didn't know him very well yet. And all he said, in that damned soft voice of his was that I'd hurt him. That he thought he'd earned my trust and loyalty. I was so glad when it disappeared into the Badlands. I remember thinking, thank god, it's over. But it's not. And if anything happens here because of Dreadnought, it's my fault. No one else's. 
PARIS: You took a risk. You were thinking like a Maquis. That was a whole different life. 
TORRES: Tell me about it. 
PARIS: You know, I've been surprised at how well you've been able to fit in here. A little envious too. 
TORRES: Tom, what's been going on with you lately? 
PARIS: Going on? How? 
TORRES: People are starting to talk. 
PARIS: Are they? People like who? Chakotay? 
TORRES: No, I mean people. Like me. Like today. Look at yourself, coming to a briefing late. And is it true you had a fight with Lieutenant Rollins? 
PARIS: The Lieutenant was unhappy that my conn. reports weren't punctuated properly, according to Starfleet protocol. I didn't like his attitude. 
TORRES: Was he right about your reports? 
PARIS: We're in the Delta quadrant, nowhere near Starfleet. What difference? Yeah, he was right. I'm the one who's been wrong. Wrong about a lot of things. Why don't we try running a multi-phasic sweep? 
[Bridge]
KIM: Captain, I'm picking up the trail again. New heading one nine six mark four. 
PARIS: I'm on it. 
JANEWAY: This course is erratic. Are we sure we're following a single warp trail? 
TUVOK: Perhaps the missile's navigational system is malfunctioning. It's been operating for over a year, far longer than it was designed to function. 
TORRES: No, this is deliberate. It's following one of the evasive patterns I programmed into it. It must have observed us following. 
KIM: I think I've got it on long range sensors. 
TORRES: No, that's only a sensor echo. Dreadnought's programmed to deflect it's up to one hundred thousand kilometres from it's true location. The next time you get a heading look for a brief surge in neutrino emissions within a one hundred thousand kilometre radius. That'll be the real thing. 
KIM: Got it. Elevated neutrino levels. Locking in coordinates. It's within visual range. 
CHAKOTAY: On screen. 
TORRES: It's targeting scanners have been activated. 
JANEWAY: What's wrong? 
CHAKOTAY: It's not supposed to do that until it's locked onto it's final target. 
TORRES: It's heading for a planet in a system over ten light years away. At its current speed, it'll get there in about three weeks. 
CHAKOTAY: The planet is Class M. I'm reading several heavily populated areas. 
[Secret location]
JONAS: Seska will want to know about this Cardassian missile immediately. 
LORRUM [on monitor]: Mister Jonas, your enthusiasm is appreciated, but I would prefer to know more about it before I bring it to Maje Culluh's attention. 
JONAS: If I could just talk to Seska. 
LORRUM [on monitor]: As I explained, I have now been assigned to be your control. 
JONAS: Look, has she been made aware how much I've been helping you? 
LORRUM [on monitor]: What the Maje chooses to share with her is none of my concern, but you are in good hands, my friend. Now tell me more about this weapon your ship has found. 
JONAS: Look, all you need to tell Seska is that this missile is better armed than the entire Kazon-Nistrim sect. 
(Jonas' computer starts beeping.) 
LORRUM [on monitor]: That's very interesting. What more can you tell me that I can bring to my 
JONAS: Someone's about to make a subspace transmission. They may be able to detect our comm. link. I have to terminate. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: My name is Kathryn Janeway, Captain of the Federation Starship Voyager. 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: First Minister Kellan, Captain. What is it you want. 
JANEWAY: Our scans of your world suggest you have long range tracking abilities. 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: We have been observing your course for the last two days. 
JANEWAY: Have you also been able to detect the missile on a parallel course off our starboard bow? 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: We haven't been able to identify what it is, but yes. 
JANEWAY: You have the right to know, First Minister, that this missile is carrying a warhead with a significant destructive force that 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: Is this some sort of threat, Captain? 
JANEWAY: On the contrary. We want to help. 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: I find that hard to believe. Your reputation precedes you, Captain. We've been told that you've threatened many races since your arrival in this quadrant. 
JANEWAY: First Minister, we're aware the Kazon have been telling that to people. They'd like to prevent us from making allies. But I assure you, you've been misled. 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: And yet here you are, sending this missile towards us. 
JANEWAY: The missile arrived here from our quadrant due to a very unusual accident. We haven't been able to determine yet why it chose Rakosa as it's target, but my Chief Engineer is preparing to disarm it before it reaches you. 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: Perhaps you are telling me this in order to delay our defensive response. 
JANEWAY: I could have maintained communication silence and not given you any warning at all. 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: That's true. Nevertheless, be aware that I am placing our defence force on alert. 
JANEWAY: I'd do the same in your place. 
KELLAN [on viewscreen]: We will be watching your progress closely. 
(Transmission ends.) 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres, how soon will you be ready 
[Transporter room]
JANEWAY [OC]: To transport? 
TORRES: Dreadnought's shields have responded to my codes. I'm ready now, Captain. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Proceed. 
TORRES: Energise. 
[Dreadnought]
(Torres beams in with her tool box. The computer speaks in her own voice.) 
DREADNOUGHT: Authorised entry detected. Initiating DNA scan. B'Elanna Torres confirmed. Hello, B'Elanna. Your last systems access was on stardate 47582. Current date is 49447. Time zero eight forty hours. Did you sleep well last night? 
TORRES: Not so well, to tell you the truth. Activate programmer interface. 
DREADNOUGHT: Your presence was not anticipated during the mission. Please explain. 
TORRES: Something's gone wrong with your programming, Dreadnought. Display targeting schematic. 
DREADNOUGHT: A self-diagnostic has been conducted every fourteen hours. No malfunctions have been detected. 
TORRES: Maybe there's something wrong with your diagnostic systems too. Identify target. 
DREADNOUGHT: Aschelan Five. 
TORRES: What targeting parameters are you using? 
DREADNOUGHT: Size. Radiothermic signature. Atmospheric composition. Relative 
TORRES: Enough. Dreadnought, you're no where near Aschelan Five. 
DREADNOUGHT: Based on available data, you are mistaken, B'Elanna. 
TORRES: Let me check out your navigational systems. 
DREADNOUGHT: Access to primary navigational systems is denied at stage three alert status. 
TORRES: That was my idea, wasn't it. 
DREADNOUGHT: Affirmative. 
TORRES: Okay, We'll have to go at this in a different way then, won't we. Dreadnought, do you know what happened to you the day after my last systems access? 
DREADNOUGHT: Please be more specific. 
(Torres takes a tool from her box and starts scanning Dreadnought's isolinear chips.) 
TORRES: Did you encounter a coherent tetryon beam? 
DREADNOUGHT: Confirmed. All attempts to avoid the phenomenon failed. 
TORRES: That beam carried you into the Delta quadrant. I'm not surprised it damaged your sensors. Dreadnought, reinitialise your navigational systems. Computer.
DREADNOUGHT: Reinitialisation sequence is complete. 
TORRES: Okay. Now verify our current position. 
DREADNOUGHT: Based on relative position to known astronomical markers, this vessel is currently located in the Delta quadrant. 
TORRES: And is Aschelan Five located in the Delta quadrant? 
DREADNOUGHT: Negative. 
TORRES: Then reconfirm your target lock. 
DREADNOUGHT: Unable to verify. Standing down from stage three. Target lock has been deactivated. Reestablishing stage four. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Torres. 
TORRES: Go ahead Captain. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: We're showing a shut down of all your engines. Can you confirm that? 
TORRES [OC]: That 
[Dreadnought]
TORRES: And more. I'll be ready to transport back in a few minutes. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Acknowledged. Good work, B'Elanna. Janeway out. 
TORRES: Dreadnought, return to stage five. Initiate power save programme. 
DREADNOUGHT: Acknowledged. Goodnight, B'Elanna. 
TORRES: Sweet dreams. 
[Ready Room]
CHAKOTAY: The Dreadnought's quantum torpedoes could be modified to be compatible with our launchers. 
JANEWAY: What about it's engine components? 
TORRES: Easily converted to Starfleet specs. We'll have spare parts for years. 
CHAKOTAY: We should also download some files from the computer core. 
JANEWAY: B'Elanna, you can begin the salvage operation first thing in the 
PARIS [OC]: Paris to Janeway. 
JANEWAY: Yes, Lieutenant. 
PARIS [OC]: The missile just took off. It's going into warp. 
JANEWAY: Stay with it, Tom. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Engaging warp drive. 
TORRES: This isn't possible. When I left it was completely shut down. 
CHAKOTAY: We're back on a heading to Rakosa Five. 
PARIS: It's increasing speed to warp nine. 
CHAKOTAY: At this rate it'll reach the planet in fifty one hours. 
(Later.) 
PARIS: It's still on course for the planet at warp nine. 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, bring us within ten kilometres. Maintain a parallel position. Bridge to Torres. Your status? 
TORRES [OC]: I don't understand it, Captain. 
[Transporter room]
TORRES: Dreadnought's shields are not recognising my security code any more. We can't initiate transport. 
JANEWAY [OC]: You'd better get back up here, Lieutenant. 
TORRES: Aye, Captain. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, let's take a shot at disabling its drive systems. Ready photons. Red alert. 
CHAKOTAY: Torres programmed the missile's shields to adjust to all known weapons, even Starfleet's. 
JANEWAY: Voyager wasn't in service when she did it. We're equipped with type six photon torpedoes. They may just get through. Fire. 
(Two torpedoes light up Dreadnought's shields.) 
TUVOK: No discernable damage, Captain. 
CHAKOTAY: It must have scanned our weapons, adapted its shields. 
PARIS: Captain, it's maintaining course and speed. 
KIM: We're being hailed by the missile. 
JANEWAY: Let's hear it. 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: Unidentified Federation ship. Although this vessel is Cardassian it has been appropriated by the Maquis. Please stand down your weapons. 
JANEWAY: You stand down your weapons and I'll stand down mine. 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: You are interfering with a tactical mission against Cardassian aggressors. This vessel is programmed to respond with all necessary force to prevent any disruption to its mission. 
TORRES: Dreadnought, why have you resumed course? 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: Hello B'Elanna. Course was resumed once your safe departure from this vessel was confirmed. It was a necessary response to your deception. 
TORRES: My deception? 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: You are participating in the Delta quadrant deception. 
JANEWAY: Explain, Dreadnought. 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: False information has been entered into Dreadnought's navigational sensor array. 
PARIS: When a bomb starts talking about itself in the third person, I get worried. 
TORRES: Why would I enter false information? 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: Probability assessment indicates you are being coerced by Cardassian forces. 
JANEWAY: You've already identified Voyager as a Federation ship, Dreadnought. Your scanners must indicate this is not a Cardassian crew. 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: Probability assessment indicates you are operating within the parameters of the Cardassian Federation Alliance, as described in the treaty of 2367. A treaty rejected by the Maquis. 
TORRES: So when I was just over there and you shut yourself off, you were lying to me? 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: Acknowledged. 
TORRES: I never taught it to do that. 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: That is not correct, B'Elanna. Your tactical subroutine instructed Dreadnought to prepare responses for thirty nine potential Cardassian threats. The possibility of your capture and coercion was number seven. 
JANEWAY: Dreadnought, is there anyway we can prove to you you are actually in the Delta quadrant. That this is not a deception. 
DREADNOUGHT [OC]: The probability of being in the Delta quadrant, seventy five thousand light years from last confirmed location, is negligible. The target is located in the Alpha quadrant. Target lock has been established. There will be no further warnings. Terminating communications link. 
TORRES: The one possible vulnerability I remember is in the thoron shock emitter. If we can get it to fire at full power, that should destabilise the reactor core for thirty seconds. A single sustained tachyon beam might just penetrate that core and destroy it. 
JANEWAY: What will it take to provoke Dreadnought into firing? 
TORRES: It shouldn't be that difficult. Once we go after it with an all-out assault, the emitter should fire. 
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, set your target. Ready photons. 
TUVOK: Ready Captain. 
JANEWAY: Fire. 
(Four photon torpedoes are used.) 
TUVOK: The missile's thoron shock emitter has fired. 
(Boom.) 
JANEWAY: Initiate the tachyon beam. 
TUVOK: We have penetrated its shields. Direct hit to the core. 
KIM: Reading an energy build up in it's reactor. It should overload in about thirty seconds. Wait a minute. There's a plasma surge coming from it's core. What the hell? 
(Whumph!) 
JANEWAY: Report! 
KIM: It sent a plasma burst along the tachyon beam into our main power system. We've got EPS relays burnt out all over the ship. 
PARIS: I'm not getting any response from the warp or impulse drives. Even the manoeuvring thrusters are out. 
TUVOK: The missile was not significantly damaged. It has maintained its course for Rakosa. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Our engines will be back online in less than an hour, First Minister, then we'll try again. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: Did you sustain any casualties, Captain? 
JANEWAY: A few. A broken arm, a broken leg, fortunately that's all. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: I'm pleased to hear that. We are projecting casualties at two million, if the worst occurs. I have deployed our fleet to intercept this missile in a matter of hours. 
JANEWAY: First Minister, we've analysed your offensive capabilities, and they're no match for what you're facing. You must have realised that yourself. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: And what would you have me do? Sit here and wait for death to fall from the sky? I'm sorry. We haven't had much sleep. We weren't prepared for anything like this. We are not a war-like race. We haven't devoted our resources to building weapons like yours. 
JANEWAY: First Minister 
KELLAN [on monitor]: Please, I've always hated that title. My name is Kellan. I prefer that. 
JANEWAY: Our Chief Engineer is trying to return to the missile's control room. She's still our best chance at disarming it. There's no reason to send your fleet on a hopeless mission. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: I appreciate your efforts, truly, but the decision has been made. We have some good pilots, Captain. Perhaps they will surprise you. 
[Transporter room]
KIM: Blocked again. 
TORRES: We don't have time for this. 
KIM: Don't worry, we'll find a way to get you back over there. 
TORRES: We wouldn't have to if I'd done my job right the first time. 
KIM: You couldn't expect to guess every move it made. 
TORRES: Why not? Dreadnought seems pretty good at guessing mine. 
KIM: It's only as smart as you made it. 
TORRES: I'm not so sure about that, Harry. It's programmes are adaptive and it's been accumulating data all this time. It spends every minute of every day thinking about new strategies, new probabilities. 
KIM: And I bet it doesn't spend much time worrying about what it could have done differently. 
TORRES: All right, Starfleet, let's give it another try. 
(After an initial stutter, Torres is beamed away.) 
[Dreadnought]
DREADNOUGHT: Unauthorised entry detected. Initiating DNA scan. Hello B'Elanna. Your last systems access was today at zero eight forty hours. Current time is nineteen thirty one hours. Have you had a pleasant day? 
TORRES: Oh, yeah. Swell day. 
DREADNOUGHT: Access to programmer interface has been denied. 
(Torres tries another panel.) 
DREADNOUGHT: Access to programmer interface has been denied. 
(Torres crosses the area and opens a panel. She gets an electric shock through the tool she is using. She throws it away and gets out a tricorder.) 
DREADNOUGHT: Access to circuit pathways has been denied. Be advised that the intensity of the shock will increase if you attempt to open the panel again. 
(Torres goes to another panel.) 
TORRES: I'm disappointed in you, Dreadnought. If I really was a Cardassian agent, you should have killed me with the first charge. 
DREADNOUGHT: Probability assessment indicates that you are being coerced by Cardassian forces. 
(Torres manages to remove a rod without being shocked.) 
TORRES: Somehow I expected you to put up more of a fight. Computer? 
DREADNOUGHT: Stage two alert has been activated. 
TORRES: Tell me what's happening. 
DREADNOUGHT: There are fifteen priority targets approaching. All weapon systems at full readiness. Speed, full impulse. 
TORRES: The Rakosan fleet. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Hail the lead ship. 
KIM: Channel open, Captain. Audio only. 
JANEWAY: This is Captain Janeway on Voyager. I urge you to break off your attack. One of my crew members is aboard the missile. 
RAKOSAN [OC]: You'd better get your crewman out, Captain. We estimate time to intercept, ninety seconds. 
JANEWAY: We're still attempting to disarm its weapons. 
RAKOSAN [OC]: My orders are clear. You'll have to talk to my superiors back home. Rakosa One, out. 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres. 
TORRES [OC]: Yes Captain. 
JANEWAY: The Rakosan fleet is preparing to attack. 
TORRES [OC]: Captain, don't beam me out. I may not be able to transport back here again. 
JANEWAY: Lieutenant. 
TORRES [OC]: I'm making progress. 
[Dreadnought]
TORRES: The Rakosan ships have created a diversion. I've already used it to disarm the security codes on board. Now, if I can just get to the central processor, I can disable the entire system. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: All right. We'll try to keep a transporter lock on you. Janeway out. 
TUVOK: The Rakosan attack is commencing, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Move us into weapons range, Mister Paris. 
PARIS: Aye, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Give them some cover fire. Red alert. 
TUVOK: Firing phasers. 
[Dreadnought]
DREADNOUGHT: All command functions have been rerouted through protected back-up circuits, B'Elanna. Your attempt to compromise control has been blocked. 
TORRES: Those ships aren't your enemy. They are not Cardassian. Can't you recognise that? 
DREADNOUGHT: This vessel is programmed to respond with all necessary force to prevent any disruption to it's mission. 
[Bridge]
(Dreadnought wipes out Rakosan ships easily.) 
KIM: Shields are holding. 
TUVOK: We are drawing minimal fire from the missile. It's primary weapons systems are focused on the Rakosan vessel. 
PARIS: Another group of fighters are starting an attack run. 
JANEWAY: We've got to draw more of the missile's fire. Make Voyager a more serious threat, Tuvok. 
(Phasers and torpedoes are fired. Boom!) 
TUVOK: Shields at forty percent. 
KIM: Damage reported on decks three and four. Repair crews responding. 
PARIS: The Rakosan vessels are withdrawing, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Good. Move us out of range of the plasma wave. Janeway to Torres. 
TORRES [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
JANEWAY: The Rakosan ships have retreated. We have one hour and nine minutes 
[Dreadnought]
JANEWAY [OC]: Until the missile reaches the planet. Any progress? 
TORRES: Dreadnought's created back-up systems to replace the ones I tried to disable. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Do you have any other ideas? 
TORRES: I'm reluctant to discuss them in present company, but could you send over a. Captain? 
DREADNOUGHT: Communications have been terminated. Transporter lock has also been disengaged. 
TORRES: What took you so long? 
DREADNOUGHT: There was a tactical advantage in monitoring your ship's communications until this time. 
TORRES: So, it's just you and me now. 
DREADNOUGHT: You are accessing the detonation control circuit. Probability assessment indicates you are attempting to detonate the explosive before it reaches its target. 
TORRES: Now, that wouldn't make much sense, would it? I'd be killing myself in the process. 
DREADNOUGHT: Probability assessment indicates you are attempting to detonate the explosive before it reaches its target. 
TORRES: If I'm being coerced by Cardassians, why would I be willing to sacrifice myself for them? Answer that one. 
DREADNOUGHT: Unable to respond. Reassessing probabilities. 
TORRES: Ah, ha. Gotcha. Why don't we reassess those probabilities together, okay? Remember how we used to play hypothetical games? 
DREADNOUGHT: Affirmative. 
TORRES: Let's play one now. Here's a hypothetical situation for you. Suppose I've been telling you the truth all along, and you really are in the Delta quadrant. 
DREADNOUGHT: Probability of being in the Delta quadrant, seventy five thousand light years from last confirmed location, is negligible. 
TORRES: Hypothetical, Dreadnought. It's a game, remember? Assume it's true for a moment. 
DREADNOUGHT: Assumption entered. 
TORRES: And we're heading for the wrong target. 
DREADNOUGHT: Assumption entered. 
TORRES: Millions of innocent people about to die when you detonate. 
DREADNOUGHT: Assumption entered. 
TORRES: Now, explain to me how this might happen. 
DREADNOUGHT: If key sensor programmes were damaged or deleted, databanks would be compromised. 
TORRES: Just for the fun of it, let's have a look at those databanks. See if anything looks at all compromised. 
(A display comes up on a wall monitor.) 
TORRES: Is this a complete file directory? There seem to be a few missing. 
DREADNOUGHT: Files containing information about the weapons or tactical systems are not necessary to verify sensor accuracy. 
TORRES: Oh, I'm hurt you don't trust me. Hold on, pause the display. What's that? Computer, identify the Cardassian file on screen. 
DREADNOUGHT: Unable to identify. 
TORRES: Looks like a back-up file. Computer, when was this file created? 
DREADNOUGHT: Stardate 46437.5 
TORRES: I believe that was before you and I ever met. 
DREADNOUGHT: Hypothetical game terminated. Probability reassessment complete. 
TORRES: A new conclusion? 
DREADNOUGHT: Affirmative. Probability of being in the Delta quadrant remains negligible. When that option is rejected, new probability assessment indicates that you have changed loyalties, B'Elanna. You are now cooperating with the Cardassian Federation Alliance as described in the treaty of 2367, a treaty which has been rejected by the Maquis. 
TORRES: Dreadnought. 
DREADNOUGHT: Humanoid life support aboard this vessel has been terminated. Approaching target at full impulse. Stage one alert has been activated. Initiating final detonation sequence. 
[Ready room]
KELLAN [on monitor]: People are crowding every port trying to get off the eastern continent. There aren't enough ships. 
JANEWAY: Kellan, there are still forty one minutes for us to prevent this. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: What can be done in forty one minutes? 
JANEWAY: I'm prepared to use this ship to detonate the warhead before the missile reaches you. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: Use your ship? To collide with it? 
JANEWAY: Something like that. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: Do you really think that would work? 
JANEWAY: I'm not sure. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: You would sacrifice yourselves to benefit a people you didn't even know two days ago? 
JANEWAY: To save two million lives? That's not a hard decision. 
KELLAN [on monitor]: Your reputation in this quadrant isn't deserved, Captain. For what it's worth, you've made a friend here. 
JANEWAY: I'm still hoping we'll have a chance to celebrate this new friendship together. 
[Dreadnought]
DREADNOUGHT: All key systems have been secured. You will not gain access. 
TORRES: I'm not interested in your key systems anymore, Dreadnought. 
DREADNOUGHT: That is an unlikely assertion, B'Elanna. 
TORRES: Seriously. Check for yourself. 
DREADNOUGHT: You are attempting to access the obsolete Cardassian file. Why? 
TORRES: Oh, just killing time. 
DREADNOUGHT: Life support has been terminated. It is advisable for you to return to your ship. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Gentlemen, I believe our best chance at stopping Dreadnought now is to set off a large antimatter explosion directly in it's path. 
CHAKOTAY: To work, it would take more energy than all of our photons put together. 
TUVOK: Or more to the point, it would take a warp core breach. 
JANEWAY: You'll be in charge of the evacuation, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: I'm not leaving you on the ship. 
JANEWAY: Captain's prerogative. Get the rest of the crew to the escape pods. I'll send the senior officers to join you in a few minutes. We don't have time to debate this, Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: Everyone except senior officers, with me. 
(Chakotay leaves.) 
JANEWAY: Computer, initiate the self-destruct sequence. Authorisation Janeway pi one one zero. Set it at twenty minutes. 
COMPUTER: Warning, self-destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in twenty minutes. 
[Dreadnought]
(Torres gets the back-up file running. She is also gasping for oxygen.) 
COMPUTER: Cardassian ATR4107 attempting to activate systems. 
TORRES: I never thought I'd be glad to hear that voice again. 
DREADNOUGHT: Voice analyser functioning. Unable to identify. 
COMPUTER: Attempting to activate systems. 
DREADNOUGHT: No additional presence detected. 
TORRES: Check those diagnostics, Dreadnought. You're talking to yourself. I believe you're having an identity crisis. 
COMPUTER: Accessing central processor memory. 
DREADNOUGHT: Engaging counter-virus response programme. 
COMPUTER: Attempting to over-ride programme. 
TORRES: Computer, identify the target. 
COMPUTER: The Maquis munitions base on Planetoid Alpha four four one
DREADNOUGHT: The Cardassian depot on Aschelan Five. 
COMPUTER: Malfunction detected in the targeting system. Attempting to correct. 
DREADNOUGHT: Negative. Target lock has been confirmed. The Maquis are now in control of this weapon. The original targeting parameters have been replaced with those of this target. The countdown for the detonation sequence will continue. Aschelan Five will be destroyed. Access to the navigational system is denied. All critical pathways have been re-routed through protected backup systems. Security lockout in function. All overrides will be blocked. Counter virus response. All systems. Attempting. 
COMPUTER: (at same time) This target does not conform to established targeting parameters. The detonation sequence cannot proceed without proper target identification. Ejecting antimatter pod. Emergency ejection system has failed. Attempting to re-initialise all key systems. Accessing backup systems. Unable to access. Enable backup overrides. Command pathways. The central processor has been routed. Attempting. 
(They descend into gibberish as Torres works on a control panel. A hatch opens.);
TORRES: Yes. 
(Torres crawls into the small space.) 
[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in eleven minutes. 
KIM: Captain, I've broken through the interference. I'm not sure how. We have communications. Checking on transporter signal. I have a lock on her. 
JANEWAY: Voyager to Torres. 
TORRES [OC]: Yes, Captain. 
JANEWAY: I need to get you out of there. We're abandoning Voyager. I'm going to overload the 
[Dreadnought core]
JANEWAY [OC]: warp core in the missile's flight path. 
TORRES: I may be able to detonate the warhead from here 
[Bridge]
TORRES [OC]: By breaching the containment field. 
JANEWAY: Can you get access to the core? 
TORRES [OC]: I'm already in it. I'm using 
[Dreadnought core]
TORRES: My phaser to burn through the magnetic constrictor casing now. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Are you all right, B'Elanna? 
TORRES [OC]: Fine. 
[Dreadnought]
TORRES: The air's just a little thin in here. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Keep me advised. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Janeway out. Mister Kim, transfer control to the conn. and report to your escape pod. 
KIM: Captain. 
JANEWAY: That's a direct order to all of you. Mister Paris, I'm relieving you. Now! 
PARIS: The starboard thrusters are a little sluggish. Ease into them. 
JANEWAY: Understood. 
PARIS: Captain, thanks for everything. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Self-destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in seven minutes. 
JANEWAY: You too, Tuvok. 
TUVOK: It is logical to have a second in command in case you are injured and unable to complete the mission, Captain. I request permission to remain. 
JANEWAY: Permission granted. 
[Dreadnought core]
DREADNOUGHT: Hello, B'Elanna. The Cardassian virus has been neutralised. 
TORRES: Good for you. 
DREADNOUGHT: Containment field integrity at forty percent and falling. 
TORRES: Estimated time to breach. 
DREADNOUGHT: This vessel is programmed to respond with all necessary force to prevent any disruption to its mission. 
TORRES: Unless I'm mistaken, you're out of options, Dreadnought. 
DREADNOUGHT: Analysis of your vital signs suggests you are about to lose consciousness, B'Elanna. 
TORRES: I'm not going anywhere until I'm finished. 
DREADNOUGHT: When you cease your efforts to breach the containment field, life support will be restored. 
TORRES: No deal. 
[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in three minutes. 
JANEWAY: Increasing velocity. Preparing to adjust our heading to intercept. 
[Dreadnought core]
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Torres. 
TORRES: Yes. 
JANEWAY [OC]: This is your last chance 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is your last chance to get back here, B'Elanna. I have to launch the last escape pods. 
[Dreadnought core]
TORRES: I understand, Captain. I'm almost finished. Let me stay. 
[Bridge]
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in two minutes. 
[Dreadnought core]
DREADNOUGHT: Containment field at twenty percent and falling. Perhaps your Delta quadrant hypothesis deserves further consideration. 
TORRES: Nice try. Who would have thought two years ago, after all those weeks we spent together perfecting your programme, that we'd end up out here trying to kill each other. 
DREADNOUGHT: Probability assessment did not anticipate this outcome. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: The missile's containment field is collapsing. 
JANEWAY: Beam her back, now. Hang on! 
(Janeway makes a sharp left turn as Dreadnought goes KaBOOM!) 
COMPUTER: Warning. Self destruct sequence has been initiated. Warp core overload in one minute. 
JANEWAY: Computer, terminate self destruct sequence. Authorisation Janeway pi one one zero. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Sequence terminated. 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Torres. B'Elanna, are you 
EMH [OC]: She's here in Sickbay, Captain. Please turn to your Emergency Medical Holographic channel. 
JANEWAY: Doctor, I forgot about you. 
EMH [on monitor]: How flattering. I wanted to advise you that I took the liberty of beaming Lieutenant Torres 
[Sickbay]
EMH: From the Transporter room to Sickbay. She is somewhat singed around the edges but should make a complete recovery. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Very good, Doctor. Janeway out. Mister Tuvok, prepare to retrieve our escape pods. Let's bring our crew home. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 

