Episode Number: 103
The Voyager Transcripts - Time and Again
Time and Again
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: January 30 1995
[Bridge]
(Tom Paris is handing over helm to his relief, a Starfleet woman.) 
PARIS: Holding course three five one mark one zero, warp seven. We'll be passing a red dwarf system in forty minutes. I can't tell you if there are any M-class planets. 
(Paris goes over to Harry Kim.) 
PARIS: You ready?
KIM: No, I really want to get on that transtator assembly diagnostic.
PARIS: Harry, I can't do this alone.
KIM: I'm sorry.
PARIS: You're making a big mistake. Can't you see what's going to happen? We're the only humans out here, Harry. People are going to start pairing off, and if we don't get to the Delany sisters in Stellar Cartography soon, somebody else will.
KIM: I've got a girl back home.
PARIS: So what? I've got five.
KIM: I plan on seeing mine again.
PARIS: Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry. You really think she's going to wait for you?
KIM: I hope so.
PARIS: Let her go. Let her have a husband and kids and a good life, while you and I have the Delany sisters.
KIM: I told you, I need to run a transtator diagnostic.
PARIS: You need to run a self-diagnostic. Look, they come as a pair. It's a double date or no date. Come on. I told them all about you.
KIM: What did you tell them about me?
PARIS: Well, for one thing, how you broke the single pilot speed record at the Academy.
KIM: Record. I never broke any record!
PARIS: And who are they going to check it with?
(Something hits Voyager, starting it shaking. Janeway and Neelix stagger in from the Briefing room.) 
JANEWAY: Report!
TUVOK: We're at the leading edge of a shockwave.
(Kes wakes from her sleep and sits upright. The shaking stops.) 
KIM: Minor hull breach on deck three. Contained. Shields are holding.
TORRES [OC]: Engineering is undamaged, Captain. All systems operational.
(Paris takes back the helm.) 
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, can you identify the source of the wave?
PARIS: I'm not sure. Scanners are picking up a debris cloud in the red dwarf system we're approaching.
TUVOK: It consists of differentially charged polaric ions, Captain.
JANEWAY: Differentially charged? That would suggest a massive detonation. Are you familiar with any intelligent life forms in this system, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Familiar? Not exactly familiar. Considerably less than familiar, actually.
JANEWAY: Adjust course to investigate.
PARIS: Aye, Captain. 
(A short while later, Kes has dressed and enters the Bridge.) 
PARIS: Entering the system Captain. Heading zero one zero mark four. Deflectors at maximum.
NEELIX: Kes, what are you doing here?
KES: I had to know. 
NEELIX: Know? Know what?
PARIS: The origin of the shockwave is an M-class planet, Captain. We're within visual range.
JANEWAY: On screen.
(A grey cratered ball.) 
KIM: All vegetation on the planet has been destroyed.
TUVOK: No satellite system in orbit, no evidence of space craft.
JANEWAY: Life signs?
KES: None.
PARIS: None. But the polaric radiation may be interfering with the scanners.
JANEWAY: Take us into orbit.
CHAKOTAY: Density patterns on the surface show artificial waterways and a global aqueduct system. There is a civilisation down there, Captain.
JANEWAY: Or there was. What do we know about surface conditions?
TUVOK: Radiation is within acceptable levels. Atmosphere, breathable.
JANEWAY: Mister Paris, Tuvok, you're with me. Miss Torres, meet us in transporter room two.
TORRES [OC]: On my way.
JANEWAY: Commander, you have the Bridge. 
[Ruined plaza]
(The away team beam down into the night of a scene of devastation, like the aftermath of a war. Tuvok puts his phaser away and they all take out their tricorders.) 
TORRES: The entire surface of the planet was just seared.
JANEWAY: There was a chain reaction in subspace, very likely triggered by the detonation of one or more polaric ion devices.
PARIS: If that's what happened, the people here never had a chance.
TORRES: They're gone. Vaporised. Every organic has basically been obliterated.
JANEWAY: At least it happened quickly. Polaric detonation would have swept through this city in seconds.
TUVOK: It recalls the Chaltok Four incident.
TORRES: Chaltok Four?
TUVOK: A Romulan research colony was nearly destroyed during the testing of one these devices. It lead to the Polaric Test Ban Treaty of 2268.
TORRES: So, we're looking at the end of a war.
PARIS: I wonder who won?
JANEWAY: I'm not so sure there was a war. Look at these readings, B'Elanna.
TORRES: Polaric ion concentrations are so high I can't get an accurate reading.
JANEWAY: I'd say these conduits were the source of the explosion, wouldn't you? 
TORRES: A civilisation powered by polaric ion energy?
JANEWAY: That's what it looks like. A time bomb underneath every street, running into every home. 
[Kes's quarters]
(Kes is crying.) 
NEELIX: What do you mean, you saw it? How could you see it?
KES: I don't know.
NEELIX: What did you see?
KES: I saw them burn. Their bodies ashes where they stood.
NEELIX: You felt the shockwave in your sleep. It's just your imagination, a strange coincidence.
KES: I don't think so.
NEELIX: What else could it be?
KES: It was almost telepathic.
NEELIX: Telepathy is a message, words, a voice. What you're describing, why, its almost like the visions of Drakian forest dwellers.
KES: Who?
NEELIX: A tribe with para-normal abilities. They can walk into an empty room
KES: Neelix. My ancestors were said to have unusual mental abilities.
NEELIX: No one believes those stories.
KES: I always have. 
[Ruined plaza]
(Paris takes something round from a ledge. It has a series of numbers in red LED on it. 401-22-84.) 
PARIS: Look. This may be some kind of time piece, stopped at the moment of the explosion.
(Sunlight and children's voices. Then it is gone.) 
PARIS: What was that? 
TORRES: What? 
PARIS: Didn't you hear that?
TUVOK: Hear what, Lieutenant?
PARIS: Kids playing. They were as close to me as 
(Paris is in the sunshine again. Children are playing ball as men and women go about their business. He is in front of a clock shop. A hand touches his shoulder and he is back in the gloom again. It was Janeway.) 
PARIS: I don't understand. I was here in this square, but there were people.
JANEWAY: You never left here, Tom.
PARIS: But I saw them! Lots of people, children playing, and the sun was shining. There was no evidence of an explosion. Everyone was alive and happy.
JANEWAY: You were standing here the whole time.
TORRES: Your central nervous system is showing a temporal flux, but it's rapidly returning to normal.
TUVOK: The chain reaction has shattered subspace, Captain.
JANEWAY: I want everyone to stand exactly where they are. If Tuvok's right, there may be subspace fractures floating like icebergs across the planet's surface. Away team to Voyager.
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Go ahead.
JANEWAY: Four to beam up. 
(Then Janeway is in the sunlight with Paris) 
[Plaza]
(Janeway uses her comm. badge.) 
JANEWAY: Tuvok! B'Elanna! Janeway 
(A young boy starts screaming. A local law officer comes over to him.) 
GUARD: Hey, calm down. It's all right. Now, what's the problem?
LATIKA: I saw them. They appeared out of thin air! They're some kind of demons. I saw them with my own eyes. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry we startled him. We just came around the corner.
LATIKA: They're lying!
GUARD: Shh. Now, calm down. You've been reading too many of those Dark Storm tales, young fellow. There's no such thing as demons.
LATIKA: But, I'm telling you.
GUARD: Ah, ah, ah! Run along now. Have a confection bar and calm down. All right everybody, back to your business. Nothing else to see here now. 
(The young boy leaves and the crowd disperses.) 
GUARD: Oh, sorry about that. 
PARIS: No problem.
GUARD: Who knows what gets into their heads, huh?
JANEWAY: Perhaps the uniform scared him. We're not from this area.
GUARD: Come in on the continental transport? 
JANEWAY: This morning.
GUARD: Is, er, that what they're wearing in Kalto province these days?
PARIS: Er, this is a little more formal than most. You know how it is when you travel.
JANEWAY: We were actually looking for a clothing shop. We thought we'd change into something more appropriate.
GUARD: There's one right over there. I hope the rest of your stay with us is more enjoyable.
(The guard leaves them.) 
PARIS: I wish I could say it will be.
(He goes to the shop display where the timepiece is counting. 371-20-01 The owner comes out.) 
SHOPKEEPER: Need a timepiece?
(The owner opens the display window.) 
PARIS: Maybe you could help me. I'm from Kalto Province. I'm not used to your timepieces.
SHOPKEEPER: They're no different that Kalton pieces.
PARIS: Are you sure? What do these numbers stand for?
SHOPKEEPER: Rotations, intervals, fractions. Same as any timepiece. Fourteen kalodas.
PARIS: A fair price. I might stop back later, if there's time. 
(Paris rejoins Janeway.) 
PARIS: If I understood correctly, this world is going to be destroyed sometime tomorrow. 
First officers log, supplemental. There's been no sign of Captain Janeway or Lieutenant Paris since they were lost in a subspace fracture. 
[Briefing Room]
(Kim has got a diagram up on the wall screen.) 
KIM: This is one of the subspace fractures we've located with a magneton scan of the surface. This is the time of the explosion, where the fracture opens. Then as the shock waves dissipate, the fracture grows more narrow. We believe that the Captain and Lieutenant Paris are trapped at the narrow end.
TORRES: Shockwaves from most explosions dissipate into the future, but we're speculating, based in part on what Paris told us he saw, that these dissipate into the past.
KIM: That's consistent with the subspace damage we've observed.
TUVOK: Why haven't they been able to return as Mister Paris did the first time?
TORRES: He wasn't all the way inside a fracture, remember? We still saw Paris standing there even when he could see the other side.
CHAKOTAY: So it's possible that the Captain and Paris are existing only hours and minutes before the explosion occurs.
TORRES: There's no way for us to measure exactly how far back these fractures go.
CHAKOTAY: How do we find them?
TUVOK: If I know Captain Janeway, she would activate a subspace beacon to assist us.
KIM: We're counting on it. First we have to find a fracture in a location where they've been. Then we have to microscan the fracture to try to pick up the signal from their subspace beacon.
TORRES: Once we've identified where and when they re, then we have to widen the fracture at that point.
TUVOK: How do you suggest we do that?
KIM: We're not sure yet. 
[Sickbay]
(The EMH is scanning Kes with his medical tricorder.) 
EMH: Hmm. Hmm, hmm.
NEELIX: What?
EMH: Hmm?
NEELIX: Is something wrong?
EMH: Yes, terribly wrong. Your brain is not on file. Either your government failed to transmit the standard fifteen five oh one crew personnel report or somebody at Starfleet Medical really fouled up.
KES: I'm not a member of the Starfleet crew.
NEELIX: We came aboard at mid-expedition.
EMH: And no one asked you for your medical histories when you arrived? Of course not. That would be the ship's doctor's job. My job, if anyone had bothered to tell me about new passengers, but I seem to be just about the last to know about everything around here. So, tell me, just how many other new arrivals are there?
NEELIX: Just us.
KES: And the crew from another ship that was destroyed.
EMH: Another crew. That's nice. This is the Emergency Medical Holographic system to Captain Janeway.
NEELIX: She's not on board. She's missing on the surface of a planet.
EMH: Missing. The Captain is missing. It seems I've found myself on the Voyage of the Damned. Very well. Please advise the highest ranking officer who is not missing, to see me at his earliest convenience. You may shut off my programme now.
NEELIX: But you haven't told us anything about her condition. 
EMH: She is the healthiest member of her species I've ever seen. The only member of her species I've ever seen. You have a lovely brain. It will make a fine addition to our files. I wouldn't worry. If your species has a history of extraordinary mental abilities, this may simply be your way of flexing those muscles for the first time. Living in space requires the body to make a variety of biological adjustments. This could be a side-effect of that process. Go home. Get a good night's sleep and drink plenty of fluids.
KES: Fluids? 
EMH: Everybody should drink plenty of fluids. Don't leave without turning me off.
KES: Computer, end programme.
EMH: And call me in the morning. 
[Plaza]
(Janeway and Paris have traded their uniforms for local attire. Some people are looking at them hanging up in the clothing store display window.) 
JANEWAY: We can assume that Voyager will be looking for a way to reach us. I'll set my comm. badge to emit a subspace beacon. If they get close, maybe they'll pick it up. I know.
PARIS: Maybe there's some way that
JANEWAY: Don't even think about it, Tom. The Prime Directive is clear. We cannot allow our presence to alter this planet's natural course of events.
PARIS: Even if the natural course of events is annihilation?
JANEWAY: Yeah.
PARIS: My father used to talk at length to us about the Prime Directive, once a year, like a holiday sermon.
JANEWAY: He considered it the guiding principle of space exploration.
PARIS: To be honest, I tuned out most of his sermons years ago.
JANEWAY: Well, tune back into this one, because I agree with him. You have no idea what the consequences might be once you involve yourself.
PARIS: The consequences would have to be better than mass destruction.
JANEWAY: You're not to warn these people. That's an order. 
(The young boy is back, and staring at them.) 
JANEWAY: Oh, god. Come on.
(The boy runs and stops in front of them.) 
LATIKA: I know you're lying.
JANEWAY: Young man, we're here on a business trip and we have a lot of work to do.
LATIKA: The officer told me you came here on the continental transport.
JANEWAY: That's right, we're from Kalto Province.
LATIKA: Yeah? Well I just talked to the transport attendant, He told me four people came today from Kalto. Two of them were a lot older than you and they had a child with them.
JANEWAY: Well the attendant was wrong. That was us.
LATIKA: So, where's the child?
PARIS: We ate him, because we are demons and we eat children and I haven't had my supper yet. 
(The boy runs off.) 
PARIS: Sorry. I just figured it was the quickest way.
JANEWAY: Let's concentrate on getting out of here.
(Paris examines the energy conduit running along the side of the plaza.) 
PARIS: The same subspace fractures that brought us here might still be around. If they were caused by a polaric explosion? Is there any way we could use polaric energy to get us back?
JANEWAY: If we had access to a polaric ion generator, we could modify a tricorder to emit a polaric field. At the very least it might help us scan for a fracture.
PARIS: I wonder where these conduits get their power? 
[Outside the Power Plant]
(Guards are holding back angry demonstrators with physical violence.) 
MAKULL: This is a lawful demonstration.
TERLA: We have a right to be here.
PARIS: Under normal circumstances I'd say we should come back tomorrow. 
(The young boy has followed them and is watching from the bushes. The guards fire rounds into the air to disperse the crowd. Friends help the injured limp away. One over-enthusiastic guard hits Janeway in the face, knocking her down, so Paris hits him. A demonstrator helps Janeway up, and he leaves with her and Paris.) 
[Engineering]
(Kim switches on a projector that emits a green beam which creates a mini-wormhole a couple of metres ahead.) 
TORRES: This device uses the same polaric energy that destroyed the planet.
KIM: At intense levels it can open a subspace fracture.
CHAKOTAY: Wide enough for the Captain and Paris to get through?
TORRES: If we can locate them, this is capable of bringing them back.
TUVOK: The logical place to begin would be at the same location they disappeared.
(Fizz! The green beam stops.) 
KIM: Only problem is, at the necessary intensity, the polaric generator will burn itself out after thirty seconds at best.
CHAKOTAY: Can't we re-initialise the generator and start again?
TORRES: Not at the same location. Once we make an attempt at any given location, the damage to subspace will make a second attempt impossible.
CHAKOTAY: How do we prevent one of us getting trapped in a fracture?
TORRES: We've modified our tricorders to detect the fractures, and all of us will be wearing one of these. 
(An armband with a box on it.) 
TORRES: It puts out an anti-polaric field. It should repel the fractures when they get within three metres.
CHAKOTAY: Nice work.
(Neelix and Kes enter.) 
NEELIX: Ah, Commander. Will you be going back to the planet surface?
CHAKOTAY: We're getting ready to leave right now. 
KES: I have to go with you.
CHAKOTAY: There's nothing down there you want to see, Kes.
NEELIX: That's what I told her.
KES: I've already seen it. I have to go. 
[Room]
(Paris is tending Janeway's head wound. Two men come down the stairs. The older man speaks first.) 
MAKULL: We're sorry to involve you in this. Pe'Nar Makull. My colleague, Ny Terla.
TERLA: Apparently you just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
PARIS: I was just thinking the very same thing.
MAKULL: What were you doing there?
JANEWAY: We're from Kalto Province. We were hoping to tour your power facility, compare it to our own.
TERLA: I've never seen a Kalton with your colour hair.
JANEWAY: Well, now you have.
MAKULL: My friend thinks you were sent by the government to infiltrate us.
PARIS: Infiltrate? You were there when she got this.
TERLA: Perhaps you were told to put on a good show for us.
PARIS: We don't even know why someone would want to infiltrate you.
TERLA: That's hard to believe. Even in Kalto there are protests against polaric energy.
JANEWAY: We're not spies.
MAKULL: When was the last time you were in a power plant? 
JANEWAY: Not since we left home.
MAKULL: You weren't in that plant yesterday?
PARIS: We were just getting there when we stumbled into you.
MAKULL: We know you're not telling the truth. We have safety monitors to measure polaric energy. When you were brought here, they registered five times the normal readings.
TERLA: To register levels this high you were either inside that plant yesterday, or at the site of a polaric disaster worse than any in the history of this planet. 
[Ruined plaza]
(Tuvok leads Torres and Kim into the area where Chakotay and Kes are already standing.) 
CHAKOTAY: What is it?
KES: It's as though I can sense the people who were here.
CHAKOTAY: I know. It's like walking through a graveyard.
KES: No, it's more than that. I almost feel as if I could touch the people who were here.
CHAKOTAY: What have you found?
TUVOK: The scanners are not showing any subspace fractures in the area now.
TORRES: That probably indicates the subspace damage is beginning to dissipate. If that's true, it's going to be harder to locate Tom and the Captain.
KIM: Commander, I'm picking up a signal from a comm. badge.
CHAKOTAY: The subspace beacon?
KIM: No, it's not on subspace. It's here, now. Kim to Janeway. Kim to Paris.
CHAKOTAY: Can we locate the source of the signal?
KIM: Yes, sir. This way. 
[Room]
MAKULL: What's your name?
JANEWAY: Janeway.
MAKULL: Unusual name.
JANEWAY: Not where I'm from.
MAKULL: What part of Kalto province was that again?
JANEWAY: I don't see any point in this.
MAKULL: There is a point, a very important one. It has to do with our schedule, and whether we can keep it or not. Can we?
JANEWAY: I don't know.
MAKULL: Do they know our plan?
JANEWAY: I have no idea.
(The young boy is carried in, struggling.) 
LATIKA: Let me go!
TERLA: Look what I caught sneaking around outside. 
[Ruined room]
(Tuvok leads the away team down the stairs.) 
TUVOK: I'm still not showing any lifesigns. 
[Room]
JANEWAY: The boy has nothing to do with any of this.
MAKULL: Is he yours?
JANEWAY: No, he's just somebody we met here.
LATIKA: Don't trust them. They aren't who they say they are.
MAKULL: Really? 
PARIS: Thanks, kid.
JANEWAY: Look, this is all a misunderstanding.
LATIKA: They lied about coming here on the Continental transport. I talked to the attendant myself. Let me go.
TERLA: What do we do with him? We can't let him go.
MAKULL: Just put him over there with the other.
(Terla sits Latika next to Paris.) TERLA: Now stay quiet. 
[Ruined room]
(Kim finds two melted comm. badges.) 
KIM: The comm. badge is designed to self-activate when the casing is destroyed to help searchers locate victims.
TORRES: I guess it means they were caught in the explosion.
TUVOK: It only means their comm. badges were caught in the explosion. Further speculation serves no purpose. I suggest we search for other tangible evidence. 
[Room]
(The tricorders are on the table.) 
MAKULL: None of us have seen devices like these before. Terla believes they're spy equipment.
JANEWAY: They're for surveying property. I've been thinking of buying land here. I need to survey it.
TERLA: I'd be curious to know how they work. Would you show me?
MAKULL: But then one of them might be a weapon, and I wouldn't want you to show me how that works, would I?
PARIS: Hey, kid, you were right about one thing. I was lying. I don't eat children
LATIKA: You don't scare me. My father works for the Media Bureau and when I tell him all about this
PARIS: What is he, some kind of journalist?
LATIKA: Yes, and so am I.
PARIS: Is that right?
LATIKA: I report for my school journal. That's right where everyone's going to find out about you when I write about this in next week's edition.
PARIS: What's your name?
LATIKA: Latika.
PARIS: Latika. I'm sorry.
LATIKA: For what?
PARIS: I just am.
MAKULL: I realise how this must appear to you but I'm just a patriot.
JANEWAY: A patriot?
MAKULL: I sincerely believe polaric energy has the potential to destroy this entire world.
JANEWAY: And I take it very few people here agree with you.
MAKULL: We have more support since the accident at Markov. We know the companies are afraid of us. We know they've increased security at all their plants, but it will not be enough to stop us. We can't wait another week, we have to move up the schedule. We know they're not telling us the truth. We have to assume the government sent them. Tell everyone we begin at four hundred tomorrow.
JANEWAY: Wait a minute. 
[Ruined room]
(Kes feels a presence pass through her.) 
KES: Captain? 
[Room]
(Janeway feels her too.) 
JANEWAY: Kes.
MAKULL: Do you have something to tell me, Janeway? If that's your real name.
JANEWAY: It is my real name. Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. 
[Ruined room]
KES: I can feel their presence.
TUVOK: Please elaborate. How can you feel their presence?
KES: I don't know. I just can. They've been in this room, I know it.
CHAKOTAY: Is there a subspace fracture anywhere in here?
TUVOK: Affirmative.
CHAKOTAY: Set up the equipment. 
[Room]
JANEWAY: You wanted the truth, all right, here's the truth. We're from the future. Exactly one day in the future.
LATIKA: You mean I was right?
PARIS: We weren't allowed to tell. At least, I thought we weren't.
JANEWAY: In a few hours from now there will be a serious accident on this world. It will be caused by a polaric detonation. We came here in an interstellar ship to investigate that explosion. When we arrived, we were exposed to the polaric radiation. 
[Room]
TUVOK: Showing a subspace fracture, co-ordinates one four one by twenty one by fourteen, five percent drift, range four metres.
KIM: Got it. Initiating generator.
TORRES: Initiating microscanner for subspace fracture. 
[Room]
JANEWAY: It's very likely that what ever you're planning to do could be responsible for this tragedy.
MAKULL: And somehow you are able to come back here to warn us?
JANEWAY: The explosion had an after-effect that no one expected. It created fractures in time. We fell through one of those fractures.
MAKULL: Interstellar ships, fractures in time, do you honestly expect us to believe all this? 
[Ruined room]
TORRES: I've found them. Scanners are picking up a subspace beacon. Adjusting penetration co-ordinates to match. I'll try to open up the other end.
(She switches the beam on.) 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Janeway. 
[Room]
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Captain, can you read us?
(Terla rips off her comm. badge.) 
TERLA: Eavesdropping devices.
JANEWAY: No, but they are for communication. My crew is trying to contact me.
TERLA: From the future, of course.
(Terla takes Paris's comm. badge.) 
MAKULL: Get the particle injector. 
(Terla opens a safe and takes out a hand-sized device.) 
MAKULL: Bring them with us. The boy, too. I have an idea how they can help. 
(Terla puts the comm. badges on the table and they all leave. The wormhole opens.) 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Chakotay to Janeway, can you read me? Please respond. 
[On the way to the Power plant]
PARIS: I don't get it, Captain, this morning you were giving orders about not interfering because of the Prime Directive, and now you're telling them everything.
JANEWAY: I told them the truth when I realised we'd already violated the Prime Directive in the worst possible manner.
PARIS: How did we do that?
JANEWAY: Just by being here. Because if we hadn't been here it's very possible this world would not have been destroyed.
PARIS: What?
JANEWAY: Think about it, Tom. Before we got involved, these people were planning to commit some kind of sabotage next week. We were the ones who forced a change in their schedule. Because of us, they decided to begin today at four hundred rotations, and we know the detonation takes place today at just after four hundred and one .
PARIS: Four oh one twenty two eighty four. Wait a minute. You're saying we're responsible for an explosion even though it occurred before our ship arrived here.
JANEWAY: We've travelled back to a point in time before the explosion, so, yes, we can be responsible for it.
PARIS: Let's say we never came, and their plans didn't change. Wouldn't the accident simply have occurred next week instead of today?
JANEWAY: Who knows what might have happened between now and then. They could have been arrested before they got a chance to carry it out, conditions at the plant might not have been the same next week. But it's become our problem now, Tom, and we have got to find a way to solve it. 
[Briefing Room]
KIM: We're running out of time. The subspacefractures are closing. We've lost over seventy percent of them.
TORRES: At this point we're suggesting we concentrate our search at the flash-point.
TUVOK: May I ask what you expect to accomplish by doing that?
KIM: We figure the Captain and Paris might have looked for the origin of the explosion to try and prevent it.
TUVOK: Unlikely. It would be a highly questionable decision in light of the Prime Directive.
CHAKOTAY: If it were me, I would have tried to get there.
TUVOK: The issue is whether Captain Janeway would go there, not you, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: You think you can locate the flash-point?
TORRES: We already have.
CHAKOTAY: Let's go. 
[Outside the Power Plant]
MAKULL: Your job is to get us past the guards. You'll tell them you're bringing us here to negotiate a settlement of our dispute with the power company.
JANEWAY: I cannot and will not do anything to help you.
MAKULL: Think before you say no. Terla has a weapon trained on the boy. If shooting begins he'll be the first victim.
(The aggressive guard comes out to meet them.) 
GUARD: Is there something I can do for you?
MAKULL: She's a government representative on official business.
(Janeway steps up to the guard.) 
JANEWAY: I am a hostage. These men are here to break into the plant.
(The guard backs away, so Makull shoots him. Latika tries to get away. Paris gets between Terla and the boy, and Terla shoots him in the side. While Janeway and Latika go to Paris, Makull and Terla shoot at the guard post and break into the power plant.) 
MAKULL: Their lives are on your conscience, Janeway!
LATIKA: You saved my life. 
PARIS: Don't waste time with me, Captain. Got to stop them.
JANEWAY: Will you stay with him until help arrives?
PARIS: Sure he will, the kid and I, we're old friends now, aren't we?
LATIKA: Yeah.
JANEWAY: I'll be back for you.
PARIS: We'll be here. 
(Janeway follows Makull, Terla and their helper down the circular corridors to where they are working on a control panel.) 
[Ruined corridor]
(The away team beam into the same corridor after the explosion.) 
KIM: The polaric levels are higher here than any place we've been so far.
TORRES: This was undoubtedly the flash-point of the explosion. Whatever went wrong, it started here.
CHAKOTAY: Do we have subspace fractures to work with here?
TUVOK: Affirmative. They remain quite numerous in this area.
CHAKOTAY: Set up the equipment.
KIM: Aye, sir. 
[Corridor ]
(Janeway is working her way closer, hiding behind blocks that link tubes together. She has a local weapon ready.) 
TERLA: I need the injector.
JANEWAY: Just hand that bag to me. 
[Ruined corridor]
TUVOK: Four one by three one zero. Two percent drift, range six metres, mark.
KIM: I have it. Initiating generator.
TORRES: Scanning for the subspace beacon. It doesn't look like they were here.
TUVOK: It is highly unlikely that Captain Janeway would come here to 
KES: No, the Captain did come. She was here. This is where she died. 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: Everybody on this planet has less than three minutes to live if you go through with this, Makull. Don't!
MAKULL: What exactly do you think we are planning to do here?
JANEWAY: I assume you're going to sabotage the plant, probably by detonating some kind of device.
MAKULL: We're not stupid enough to blow up anything here.
JANEWAY: That may be true, but something will go wrong.
MAKULL: Nothing is going to go wrong unless you fire that weapon near a polaric conduit. For everyone's safety, I suggest you put it down.
JANEWAY: Give me the bag. 
(Makull clutches it to his chest.) 
JANEWAY: All right then, we'll wait. 
[Ruined corridor]
CHAKOTAY: If Kes is right, the Captain was here at the moment the explosion occurred. Is there anyway to break through subspace a few minutes before the detonation?
KIM: If the widest point of the fracture represents the time of the explosion, couldn't we open a hole just before the widest point?
TORRES: There's no way we could pin-point the exact time we'd be penetrating but we could make an educated guess.
TUVOK: I feel it is my duty to point out there is absolutely no logical reason to believe Kes is correct. However, since I have no alternative course of action to recommend at this time, I suggest we proceed.
TORRES: Commander? 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: What time is it?
TERLA: Four oh one rotations plus twenty one. 
JANEWAY: We'll just wait until twenty three.
MAKULL: Twenty three? What's the importance of twenty three? Oh, this is all about the alleged time of our self-annihilation. All right, let's just see if we can all get through the next 
(A wormhole starts to open up behind Janeway.) 
TERLA: What's going on?
JANEWAY: They're cutting through subspace.
MAKULL: My god, it's going to intersect with the conduit wall!
JANEWAY: Our own rescue attempt. That's what sets it off! My weapon may be able to seal that hole. It's our only chance. 
(Makull opens the bag and Janeway takes out a phaser. She fires it at the growing wormhole.) 
[Ruined corridor]
TORRES: I'm getting nadion particle resistance from the other side.
KIM: Increasing generator to maximum output. The generator's overloading.
TORRES: I don't understand. It's not working. We're not penetrating the fracture. 
(The wormhole is defeated by Janeway's phaser, blowing the away team backwards in slow motion. All the crewmembers disappear from the planet surface.) 
[Bridge]
PARIS: Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry, Harry. You really think she's going to wait for you?
KIM: I hope so.
PARIS: Let her go. Let her have a husband and kids and a good life, while you and I have the Delany sisters.
KIM: I told you, I need to run a transtator diagnostic.
PARIS: You need to run a self-diagnostic. Look, they come as a pair. It's a double date or no date. Come on. I told them all about you.
KIM: What did you tell them about me?
PARIS: Well, for one thing, how you broke the single pilot speed record at the Academy.
KIM: Record? I never broke any record!
PARIS: And who are they going to check it with? 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Captain Janeway.
(Janeway and Neelix enter.) 
JANEWAY: Yes, Commander.
CHAKOTAY: We've identified an M-class planet in the red dwarf system we're approaching. Do you want to change course to investigate?
JANEWAY: Are you familiar with any intelligent life forms in this system, Mister Neelix?
NEELIX: Familiar. Not exactly familiar. Considerably less than familiar, actually. 
(Kes enters.) 
NEELIX: Kes, what are you doing here?
KES: I had to know.
NEELIX: Know? Know what?
KES: The planet. Everyone was killed. There was this terrible explosion.
NEELIX: You had a bad dream.
KES: No, it was more than a dream.
JANEWAY: Mister Tuvok, any indications of trouble on that M-class planet?
TUVOK: Negative, Captain.
JANEWAY: Is it populated?
TUVOK: Sensors do show humanoid life. There is no satellite system and no indications of space craft in the vicinity. It appears to be a pre-warp civilisation.
JANEWAY: Which means, as a policy, we don't involve ourselves in their affairs.
NEELIX: Of course. A most enlightened philosophy. Come on, Kes.
KES: I'm sorry. Captain, is it possible to see this planet on the view screen?
JANEWAY: There it is.
(Blue and with clouds.) 
KES: Thank you.
(Kes and Neelix leave.) 
PARIS: Come on. Come on. Just go.
JANEWAY: Enter the planet's co-ordinates into the log and maintain present heading, Commander, warp six.
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. 

