Episode Number: 510
The Voyager Transcripts - Counterpoint
Counterpoint
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 16 December 1998
[Bridge]
(Voyager is surrounded by bigger vessels. Chakotay is at th tactical station.)
CHAKOTAY: The Devore ships are assuming a tactical formation. 
JANEWAY: Bridge to Transporter room. Status. 
[Transporter room]
KIM: All set here, Captain. Pattern cohesion looks stable. 
[Cargo Bay one]
JANEWAY [OC]: Cargo Bay one, Report. 
SEVEN: The bay is clear. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They're powering weapons. 
PARIS: Why do they bother? They know we won't resist. 
JANEWAY: Protocol, Mister Paris. 
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing. 
(A humanoid with heavily defined zygomatic process but no eyebrows, and a ridge down the middle of his forehead comes on the viewscreen.)
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Gaharay vessel, prepare to be inspected. Crew members are instructed to step away from their stations. 
JANEWAY: We know the drill. 
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Sidearms and scanning equipment are to be set aside. Deviation from this or any other inspection protocols will not be tolerated. 
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Prepare to be boarded by Devore inspection teams. Give them your full cooperation. Let's get this over with. 
CHAKOTAY: Their soldiers have materialised on decks fifteen, eleven, four and one. 
(Mahler's;1st symphony, 2nd movement is coming from the ship's speakers.)
KASHYK [OC]: Captain Janeway, report to your Ready room. 
[Ready room]
(A younger black-haired Devore man is sitting at her desk.)
KASHYK: Good morning, Captain. I took the liberty of playing this music throughout your ship. I thought it might help your crew relax. Sometimes these inspections can be stressful. 
JANEWAY: How thoughtful. 
KASHYK: I've replicated some coffee. Black, as usual? 
JANEWAY: Black. 
KASHYK: Prax here still refuses to try it but then, he's a man of few pleasures. 
(Prax and his guard leave.)
KASHYK: Captain, Please, make yourself at home. 
[Sickbay]
(The inspection is very thorough, whatever they are looking for. Jefferies tubes, wall panels, Heisenberg compensators, test tubes are all scanned individually.)
EMH: Those cell cultures are extremely fragile. Please 
(The Devore drops it deliberately.) 
[Engineering]
PRAX: You've been routing power through your transporter system. Why? 
TORRES: It's a routine diagnostic. We've been having trouble with our imaging scanners. 
PRAX: The problem is in the primary energising coils. Focus your efforts there. 
TORRES: Thanks for the tip. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(Every crewmember is also scanned.)
PRAX: Contaminated antimatter. This material could interfere with our readings. A bionetic implant? 
SEVEN: An interlink node. It permits communication with other Borg drones. 
PRAX: You are not a telepath. 
SEVEN: No. 
[Ready room]
(Kashyk admires an old microscope.)
KASHYK: Remarkable. How old is this? 
JANEWAY: About six hundred years. My grandfather gave it to me when I was a child. 
KASHYK: It seems you have a long-standing obsession with exploration, Captain. I, on the other hand, have much more in common with this ancient soldier. 
JANEWAY: He's from Earth's classical period. It produced some of our greatest artists as well. 
KASHYK: Your culture has many contradictions. Violence and beauty, science and faith, all somehow mingled harmoniously. Like the counterpoint of this music. Mahler. Symphony Number One, am I correct? 
JANEWAY: You're getting to know my musical database better than I do. 
KASHYK: I've had time to review it since our last encounter. 
JANEWAY: Tell me, are all of your inspections this personal? 
KASHYK: I'm just trying to get to know you, Captain. There's no reason for us to be adversaries. I could be your friend, and right now you could certainly use one. 
JANEWAY: Really? Why is that? 
KASHYK: Your predicament? I don't expect it's been easy. Thousands of light years from home, navigating by strange stars, trespassing in other people's space, ignoring their laws. 
JANEWAY: We're just trying to get back to Earth, Inspector. 
KASHYK: Through the Devore Imperium? 
JANEWAY: It's tough to avoid. 
KASHYK: Still, most people make the effort. We don't exactly embrace outsiders. 
JANEWAY: Gaharay? 
KASHYK: It means strangers. Which brings me to a matter that could threaten our friendship. I've examined your crew manifest from our last inspection. Commander Tuvok, Ensign Vorik. Vulcans. Ensigns Suder and Jurot. Betazoids. All telepaths, and yet for some reason you neglected to mention them. 
JANEWAY: For a very simple reason. They're dead. Tuvok, Vorik, and Jurot died in a shuttle crash about two months ago. Suder was killed in a conflict with a species called the Kazon. 
KASHYK: That's fortunate, for you I mean. If I'd known you were harbouring telepaths I would have had to arrest you for breaking our cardinal protocol. 
JANEWAY: They were valued members of my crew, Inspector, not criminals. 
KASHYK: Perhaps. Captain do you trust me? 
JANEWAY: Not for a second. 
KASHYK: Exactly, and why should you? Trust has to be earned. It's gradual. And yet it's the foundation of every relationship, professional and personal. It's also a concept alien to the telepathic races. Why take someone at their word when you can simply read their mind? 
(Prax enters.)
PRAX: We've completed our inspection. There are no telepaths aboard. However, their sensor logs indicate they deviated from their assigned course on two occasions. 
JANEWAY: In both cases, to avoid ion storms. 
PRAX: Imperative thirty two, codicil six twenty six. All Gaharay vehicles that deviate from prescribed flight vectors will be impounded, their crews detained and relocated. 
KASHYK: Prax, it's clear the Captain didn't intend to break protocol. I expect we can overlook these infractions. 
PRAX: Sir? (Kashyk gives him a ;Look.) Yes, sir. 
KASHYK: Captain, I'm a reasonable man, and you've been cooperative, but consider this a reminder. You have a long trip through Devore space and good friends can be an asset. 
JANEWAY: I'll keep it in mind. 
[Bridge]
PARIS: The Devore vessels are out of range. 
JANEWAY: Bridge to transporter team. You're clear. 
[Cargo Bay one]
SEVEN: Cargo Bay one to Ensign Kim. Pattern enhancers are in place. 
[Transporter room]
KIM: Initiating rematerialisation sequence. 
TORRES [OC]: Harry? 
[Engineering]
TORRES: I'm routing maximum power to the transporters. 
[Transporter room]
KIM: Got it. Align the confinement beam to ten angstroms. Energising. 
[Cargo Bay one]
SEVEN: Ensign Kim, the confinement beam is unstable. 
[Transporter room]
KIM: We're trying to correct it now. 
[Cargo Bay one]
JANEWAY: What's the problem? 
SEVEN: We are unable to consolidate their patterns. They've been in suspension too long. 
JANEWAY: Harry, increase power to the imaging scanners. 
KIM [OC]: Aye, Captain. 
[Transporter room]
KIM: It's working. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(14 people solidify. Tuvok and Vorik, and a group of men, women and children.)
JANEWAY: Nice work, Harry. All our guests are present and accounted for. 
KIR: Captain. 
JANEWAY: They're gone. For now. 
Captain's log, supplemental. After weeks of playing hide and seek with the Devore inspectors, our goal is near. A transport vessel that will take our passengers to a wormhole leading out of hostile territory. 
[Sickbay]
JANEWAY: Back to your old self again? 
KIR: Each time we do this, I feel as thought I've left a few molecules behind in your Cargo bay. 
JANEWAY: Well, I'll have someone scan the room if it'll make you feel better. Kir, we just received an encoded message from the transport vessel. 
KIR: They've changed the rendezvous point again. 
JANEWAY: I'm afraid so. 
KIR: Did they send the new coordinates? 
JANEWAY: We're still waiting for them. 
TUVOK: Captain, we may have another problem. 
EMH: I've just treated Tuvok and two of the refugees for acute cellular degradation. I've repaired most of the damage but unfortunately the effect is cumulative. 
KIR: Meaning? 
TUVOK: If we continue to go into transporter suspension, some of us may not survive. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway. 
JANEWAY: Go ahead. 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: We're receiving another transmission.
JANEWAY: Acknowledged. 
[Astrometrics lab]
SEVEN: The new coordinates are here, within a Mutara-class nebula two point three six light years from our current position. 
CHAKOTAY: It's definitely out of the way. Less chance of being discovered, but it'll take two more days to get there. 
JANEWAY: Two days. That increases the chances that we'll run into another inspection. 
TUVOK: Given the frequency of patrols in that area, it's likely we'll be stopped at least once. 
JANEWAY: Just what the Doctor didn't order. Tuvok, Seven, I want you to lay in a course that'll attract as little attention as possible. Avoid their colonies, space stations, tourist attractions, if they have any. 
[Mess hall]
(Uncle Neelix is telling a fairy tale to the children.)
NEELIX: The Ogre of Fire's Castle hovered over the forest like a great black spaceship, turning day into night. Flotter and Trevis knew they had to find a way to keep the Ogre from burning the forest down, but his castle, it was higher than the tallest tree. It seemed hopeless, until they discovered 
(A boy speaks up.)
ADAR: A door. 
NEELIX: A door. Right, a mysterious door right in the middle of the 
ADAR: The clearing. 
NEELIX: You know, it's, it's not nice to read people's thoughts when they're telling a story. 
ADAR: I'm sorry. 
NEELIX: It's all right. 
(Janeway enters.) 
NEELIX: Why don't you all go play by yourselves for a while. We'll finish the story later. 
JANEWAY: How are they doing? 
NEELIX: Oh, fine, more or less. They don't understand what all the fuss is about, but they're telepaths, Captain. If the parents are concerned or fearful the children feel it, too. You did the right thing. If we hadn't taken them off that freighter, they'd be in a detention centre by now. 
JANEWAY: Well, we're going to make sure that doesn't happen. Is the kitchen still open or are you just serving stories? 
NEELIX: For you, it's always open. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: I'm detecting a vessel, three hundred thousand kilometres and closing. The signature is Devore. 
CHAKOTAY: Red alert. Shields up. Bridge to Captain. 
[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: More company, Commander? 
CHAKOTAY [OC]: Looks like it. 
JANEWAY: Get our visitors to the Cargo Bay. Stand by for transporter 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY [OC]: Suspension. 
CHAKOTAY: Aye, Captain. 
[Mess hall]
JANEWAY: Neelix. 
NEELIX: Right away. Come on now, we're going to go see your parents. Let's go. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report. 
CHAKOTAY: It's a scout ship. One pilot, no other crew. 
PARIS: The vessel hasn't raised shields or charged weapons. 
JANEWAY: If this is another inspection, it's certainly a different approach. 
KIM: We're being hailed. 
JANEWAY: Open a channel.;
KASHYK [on viewscreen]: Captain. 
JANEWAY: Inspector. 
KASHYK [on viewscreen]: It's urgent that we speak. 
JANEWAY: You know the way to my Ready room. 
[Ready room]
(Kashyk is out of uniform.)
JANEWAY: It's all right, Ensign. I submitted to your previous inspections because you outgunned me, but I don't see of your warships nearby. I have no intention of cooperating. 
KASHYK: I'm not here to search Voyager. 
JANEWAY: Then what do you want, Inspector? 
KASHYK: Call me Kashyk, please. I never liked that title. In fact, I've left it behind. 
JANEWAY: Did somebody offer you a promotion, or are you just having a bad day? 
KASHYK: I'm defecting, and I need your help. 
JANEWAY: Me? 
KASHYK: I've come to ask asylum. Safe passage out of Devore space before I end up in a detention centre myself. 
JANEWAY: Now, why would I risk the safety of my crew by harbouring a defector? 
KASHYK: Because of what I'm about to tell you. If you continue on your present course, you'll be intercepted by a squadron of my warships. Voyager will be seized, your crew imprisoned or worse. The nebula is a trap, Captain, to catch vessels smuggling telepaths. 
JANEWAY: You've inspected my ship three times. You know we aren't smuggling telepaths or anyone else. 
KASHYK: What I know is that you have twelve refugees aboard right now. That you rescued them from a freighter three weeks ago, and that you've been concealing them in Cargo Bay one using your transporters. I could have exposed them at any time, but I wanted them to escape as much as you do. I can still protect them, but only if you take me with you. My people know about the wormhole. It's only a matter of time before they find it. You have no choice, Captain. I'm your only hope. 
[Astrometrics lab]
JANEWAY: This is our rendezvous point, inside this nebula. Unfortunately the transport vessel we're supposed to meet is no longer there. Inspector. 
(Kashyk magnifies another part of the nebula.)
TUVOK: A Devore warship. 
JANEWAY: One of a dozen positioned throughout the nebula. All invisible to our sensors until Kashyk showed me how to compensate for their refractive shielding. 
SEVEN: Your soldiers intercepted the transport ship? 
KASHYK: Over a week ago. We were the ones who changed the rendezvous coordinates. Two vessels carrying refugees have already been seized. Voyager would have been next. 
JANEWAY: All right Inspector, you helped us avoid this ambush. What now? 
KASHYK: We'll have to get your passengers to the wormhole on our own. These are the schedules and routes of our patrols, along with tactical data on our shield and weapons configurations. Enough to ensure that you avoid another inspection. 
JANEWAY: How long before you're missed? 
KASHYK: Well, I took two weeks leave. Enough time, I hope, to find the wormhole and get your passengers safely through it and myself, as well. 
TUVOK: Your data is useful, but it doesn't guarantee our success. 
KASHYK: No, for that you'll need my guidance and some luck. 
JANEWAY: I'll have to take this up with the Brenari. See what they think of their new benefactor. I'll let you know what they decide. I'll have to insist you remain under guard. No hard feelings. 
KASHYK: No hard feelings. 
[Brenari quarters]
KIR: It's unusual, but not unheard of. There have been sympathisers before. Kashyk may be telling the truth. 
CHAKOTAY: Maybe you should just read his thoughts. 
KIR: Devore soldiers undergo years of mental training to prevent that. 
TUVOK: He might be telling the truth, but he also might be using us to find the wormhole. 
CHAKOTAY: So what do we do, throw him in the Brig? 
JANEWAY: No, we take him up on his offer to help, see how it plays out. But I want round the clock security. We need to watch his every movement. That leaves us with our next question. How do we find the wormhole? 
KIR: I've given it some thought. There's a scientist named Torat. He's from a nearby system. He's rumoured to know more about the wormhole than anyone. He might help us, for a price. 
JANEWAY: A price? 
KIR: His species power their ships with a fluidic alloy that's difficult to find. 
TUVOK: Perhaps we can replicate it. 
KIR: I have some data on it's composition. 
JANEWAY: See what you can do. In the meantime we'll set a course for Torat's planet, try to track him down. 
[Briefing room]
JANEWAY: Nervous? 
KASHYK: Let's just say I'm not used to other people deciding my fate. 
JANEWAY: Until today, you were part of a government responsible for persecuting thousands of innocent people. Why the sudden change of heart? 
KASHYK: There's nothing sudden about it. I've been looking for a way to escape for years. Voyager was the perfect opportunity. 
JANEWAY: How so? 
KASHYK: Well, what are you suggesting? I ask a Brenari vessel for assistance? They'd throw me out an airlock. Besides, you're something of a humanitarian, Captain. I've read your database. I know all about Starfleet philosophy. Unless you left those ideals behind in the Alpha Quadrant? 
JANEWAY: I certainly don't grant asylum to every person I meet. Especially ones who ransack my ship and terrorise my crew. You're asking me to believe you're someone else, and that's a leap of faith I'm not ready to make. 
KASHYK: You're turning me away. 
JANEWAY: No. No, I'm going to give you safe passage to the wormhole in return for your help in getting us there, but I'm also imposing some restrictions. You'll have your own quarters but limited access to Voyager's systems and your whereabouts will be monitored at all times. 
KASHYK: I'm used to being surrounded by armed guards. Makes me feel secure. 
JANEWAY: Only this time they answer to me. Consider them a reminder that Voyager is my ship. 
KASHYK: I don't think anyone could doubt that. 
Captain's log, supplemental. It's taken us nearly two days, but we've managed to locate Torat, the man who's supposedly an expert on wormholes. Unfortunately, he seems reluctant to share his expertise. 
[Bridge]
(Voyager is chasing a small spaceship.)
PARIS: He's trying to evade us. 
JANEWAY: Hail him again. 
CHAKOTAY: Mister Torat doesn't seem too trusting. Maybe he's been through one inspection too many. 
TUVOK: No response. He's deactivated his communication system. 
KIM: I think I can tap into his computer, override the lockout. 
JANEWAY: Do it. 
(They get the bipedal alien on the viewscreen. Deep-set eyes, down-turned mouth, ears set a long way back. Possible saurian ancestors.)
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Go away! 
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation Starship Voyager. We have no hostile intent. 
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Then why are you pursing me? 
JANEWAY: We'd just like to ask you
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Federations, Imperiums. Why do you people feel such a need to align yourselves with monolithic organisations? 
JANEWAY: I'd be glad to discuss that and any other philosophical issue you care to raise if you would just slow down and talk. 
TORAT [on viewscreen]: Sorry, can't do that. I'm late for a very important conference. 
KASHYK: This is a waste of time. Disable his ship. 
JANEWAY: That's what we call overkill, Inspector. Ensign, can we transport at this range? 
KIM: Absolutely. Energising. 
(Torat is beamed onto the bridge.)
JANEWAY: Welcome aboard. Your reputation precedes you. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Twenty centilitres of mercurium isochromate. No impurities, and this is just a sample. We've synthesised enough to power your ship for a year. 
TORAT: It doesn't matter. I've never heard of this wormhole you're looking for, or these so-called refugees. 
JANEWAY: Well, they've heard of you. 
TORAT: Well, no doubt. My research is famous. 
JANEWAY: Think of all the stars you could research once you've infused your propulsion system with this. 
TORAT: There's no point in bribing me. 
KASHYK: He's right. He couldn't help us if he wanted to. 
TORAT: What do you mean by that? 
KASHYK: I doubt you'd know a wormhole from a dark matter inversion. 
JANEWAY: Professor Kashyk is another expert I've retained to help us with this matter. I'm afraid he's not as impressed with your work as I am. In fact, he discouraged me from seeking you out. 
TORAT: Professor Kashyk? Never heard of you. 
KASHYK: Not surprising, considering you toil in scientific obscurity. 
TORAT: Obscurity! I've discovered over sixty astronomical phenomena! 
KASHYK: Not worth the sensors they were recorded on. 
JANEWAY: There's no need to insult the man. Just because he doesn't know how to find an interspatial flexure. 
TORAT: Interspatial flexure? Why didn't you say so in the first place? He said wormhole, a layman's term that that covers any number of phenomena. I am familiar with a certain anomaly that could be categorised as an interspatial flexure. 
KASHYK: Where is it? 
TORAT: Actually, a better question would be, where is it now? It's really quite interesting. The aperture of the phenomenon, which I prefer to call an intermittent cyclical vortex, is unfixed. It manifests infrequently for only brief periods of time and in varying locations. I can give you the last four locations. Perhaps you can extrapolate the next one, if you're as accomplished a scientist as you claim to be. 
[Mess hall]
(Tchaikovsky's 4th Symphony, 2nd movement, plays in the background.)
JANEWAY: Think. 
KASHYK: I'm thinking. 
JANEWAY: Think harder. Four wormhole appearances less than twenty light years apart. There's no pattern. 
KASHYK: Did you apply a fractal coefficient? 
JANEWAY: Didn't work. 
KASHYK: Neutrino flux parameters? Statistical algorithms? 
JANEWAY: Every one I could find. This wormhole defies analysis. Maybe Torat was right. We're just out of our league. 
KASHYK: It's not like you to give up. Think harder. 
JANEWAY: How do you predict a random occurrence? 
KASHYK: You follow your instincts. Captain? 
JANEWAY: Counterpoint. It's in all great music. Parallel melodies playing against one another. We've been looking at the obvious, frequency, location, timing, but each of those parameters could have a counterpoint in subspace. 
KASHYK: If we could run an algorithm based on subspace harmonics, it might reveal our pattern. 
JANEWAY: Computer, run a subspatial transkinetic analysis on the wormhole data. 
COMPUTER: Analysis in progress. 
JANEWAY: This'll take a minute. 
KASHYK: I'm going to miss this coffee of yours. 
JANEWAY: Well, I will give you the recipe. 
KASHYK: Thank you. 
JANEWAY: You don't sound too happy about leaving. 
KASHYK: The Brenari aren't about to embrace a former Inspector. I'll be feared, hated for what I represent. 
JANEWAY: Anxiety doesn't become you, Inspector. Try to relax a little. 
KASHYK: I suppose you liked me better in uniform. 
JANEWAY: I haven't decided whether I like you at all. 
(He looks at a series of coloured lights visible through the window.)
KASHYK: We call them the Kolyan Kolyar. Infinite Spirals. 
JANEWAY: Beautiful. 
KASHYK: As a boy, I spent years gazing at these lights. This is the last time I'll ever see them. 
JANEWAY: We have something similar back on Earth. The Aurora Borealis. 
KASHYK: Which you too may never see again. I suppose we're both refugees, in a way. 
JANEWAY: I'm still counting on getting this ship home. 
KASHYK: Are you sure you'll be welcome when you do? I came across something else in your database. The Prime Directive. 
JANEWAY: The Federation's cardinal protocol. 
KASHYK: It seems you violated it when you rescued these telepaths. 
JANEWAY: Well, let's just say I usually go with my instincts and sort it out later at the Board of Inquiry. Those Admirals and I were on a first name basis, you know. You're risking a lot, too. Why? 
KASHYK: Three months ago my teams were inspecting a plasma refining vessel. We found a family of telepaths hiding in one of the extraction tanks. There was a child, very young. She'd been inside it for days, barely able to breathe. When I lifted her out and set her down on the deck, she thanked me. I sent her to a relocation centre with the others, knowing full well what would happen to her. After that, I could think of nothing else, and when I couldn't stand it any longer. You're my deliverance, Captain. 
COMPUTER: Analysis complete. 
JANEWAY: It worked. It looks like it'll appear in about three days, less than eight light years from here. 
KASHYK: The Tehara system. 
JANEWAY: Is that a problem? 
KASHYK: There's an automated sensor array between here and Tehara. 
JANEWAY: Can we go around it? 
KASHYK: We'd never make it in time. We'll have to find a way to avoid detection. 
JANEWAY: Let's do it in the morning. We've done enough for tonight. Are you saying goodbye? There will be other spirals. 
KASHYK: They've just never looked quite so beautiful before. Could be the company I'm keeping. 
JANEWAY: Or the polarisation axis of the windows. 
KASHYK: That must be it. 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: How often does this array emit a scanning pulse? 
KASHYK: Every forty seconds. 
JANEWAY: Range? 
KASHYK: Ten light years. The pulse is designed to track warp fields and impulse signatures. If we lower our power output to beneath it's detection threshold 
JANEWAY: We could drift past undetected. 
KASHYK: It's worth a try. 
(They arrive at Kashyk's quarters.)
JANEWAY: Well, good night. 
KASHYK: Captain, why don't you join me? I've been looking forward to trying your replicator. Well, I'm sure that I can come up with something to toast the evening. We've accomplished quite a bit today. 
JANEWAY: I'm afraid that won't be possible. I had your replicator taken offline. 
KASHYK: In case I decided to replicate a weapon. 
JANEWAY: A safety precaution. You understand. 
KASHYK: Better than anyone. 
JANEWAY: Sleep well. 
KASHYK: And you. 
(The door closes. Janeway speaks to the guard, who is standing at attention.)
JANEWAY: As you were. 
[Bridge]
(At the sensor array.)
TUVOK: Fifteen seconds. 
KASHYK: Our power output is below the detection threshold. 
TUVOK: Ten seconds. Five, four, three, two. 
(The pulse passes through Voyager.)
KASHYK: We weren't detected. 
PARIS: Ten minutes and we'll be out of range. 
TORRES [OC]: Engineering to bridge, we've got a problem. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: That pulse triggered a variance in the antimatter stream. It's not much, but it'll light us up like a beacon when the next pulse hits. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Options. 
TORRES: I can't correct it in time, so that leaves shutting down the core. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Do it. 
TUVOK: The array has released another pulse. 
JANEWAY: Time. 
TUVOK: Twenty eight seconds. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Get down to the plasma injectors. Grab a tricorder and monitor the antimatter flow.
VORIK: Aye, sir. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Twenty seconds. 
JANEWAY: B'Elanna. 
TORRES [OC]: Almost 
[Engineering]
TORRES: There, Captain. I'm having a problem with the injectors. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Fifteen seconds. Ten seconds. Four, three two. 
;
KASHYK: We've been detected. The array's transmitting an alert. 
JANEWAY: Can we block it? 
TUVOK: Negative. 
JANEWAY: Stand down grey mode. B'Elanna, fire up the core. We're getting out of here. 
KASHYK: Warships will be on their way, but we can still reach the wormhole. 
JANEWAY: If we can find it. Tom, how long to the Tehara system? 
PARIS: Eleven hours at maximum warp. 
KIM: Engines are back online. 
JANEWAY: Engage. 
[Briefing room]
SEVEN: Using the model you developed, we were able to narrow down the location of the wormhole's next appearance to a radius of two hundred thousand kilometres. 
KIR: We can't determine its exact position until we reach the system, but we know it will open in roughly six hours. 
SEVEN: It will remain open for two minutes at most. 
TUVOK: I've devised a new shield modulation which should protect us against their weapons. 
KASHYK: You're not planning to fight your way to the wormhole? 
JANEWAY: If I have to. 
PARIS [OC]: Bridge to Captain Janeway. 
JANEWAY: Go ahead. 
PARIS [OC]: Long range sensors have picked up two Devore warships heading right for us. 
TUVOK: Time to intercept. 
PARIS [OC]: Six hours. 
JANEWAY: Take the bridge. I'll be in Engineering. Kashyk. 
[Corridor]
JANEWAY: First we'll check those shield modifications, then we'll see if we can adjust our phasers to penetrate the Devore shields. If torpedoes don't work I want an alternative. 
KASHYK: Captain, we have to talk. But not here. 
[Janeway's quarters]
KASHYK: I'm going back, to rejoin the warships. It's the only way I can guarantee your safety. 
JANEWAY: Kashyk. 
KASHYK: I'm still a ranking officer. I can take command of the inspection teams, make sure the refugees aren't discovered. 
JANEWAY: You said yourself they're suspicious. Return now and you risk being caught. 
KASHYK: I can keep them off track long enough to get you through that wormhole. 
JANEWAY: It's too dangerous. 
KASHYK: Kathryn. 
JANEWAY: You asked for safe passage and I agreed, under the condition that you follow my orders. 
KASHYK: You may stand a chance against one of our warships, but not against two. If I stay your best chance of escape will be lost. 
JANEWAY: I could confine you to quarters. I was planning on asking you to stay with us once we got through the wormhole. I wouldn't mind having someone around who appreciates a bit of Tchaikovsky now and then. 
KASHYK: Generous but, something tells me I wouldn't fit in any better on Voyager. 
JANEWAY: Well, you wouldn't be the first wayward soul we've folded into our ranks. Your shuttle will be ready for launch within the hour. 
[Corridor]
TUVOK: Our course will put us just outside the Teharan system by the time the warships arrive. 
JANEWAY: Your inspection teams have to be off Voyager before that wormhole opens. 
KASHYK: Believe me, it will be the quickest inspection on record. 
TUVOK: I'll be on the bridge. Your efforts have been greatly appreciated. 
KASHYK: My pleasure. 
TUVOK: Live long and prosper. 
KASHYK: Thank you. 
[Shuttle bay]
KASHYK: Begin pre-ignition sequence. 
(His shuttle starts to power up.)
JANEWAY: I've made one adjustment to your plan. After the inspection, we're going to wait at the wormhole for as long as we can. Until it begins to collapse. 
KASHYK: I may not be able to join you this time. 
JANEWAY: Try.
(Kashyk kisses Janeway, then she kisses him back. He gets into his shuttle and leaves.) 
[Bridge]
(Devore warships arrive at Voyager's position.)
CHAKOTAY: They're assuming a tactical formation. Shields? 
JANEWAY: No. We follow protocol. Bridge to transporter room. 
[Transporter room]
JANEWAY [OC]: Status? 
KIM: Ready, Captain. Pattern cohesion stable. 
[Cargo Bay one]
JANEWAY [OC]: Cargo bay one? 
SEVEN: Clear. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: They're hailing. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Gaharay vessel, prepare to be
JANEWAY: We've been through three inspections. Please explain why another is necessary. 
PRAX [on viewscreen]: Crew members are instructed to step away from their stations. Side arms and scanning equipment are to be set aside. Deviation from this or any other inspection protocols will not be tolerated. 
JANEWAY: All hands, this is the Captain. Prepare to be boarded by Devore inspections teams. Give them your usual warm welcome. 
CHAKOTAY: Devore soldiers have materialised on decks fifteen, twelve, eight, four. 
JANEWAY: And one. 
KASHYK: Captain Janeway, report to your Ready room. 
[Ready room]
(Tchaikovsky's 4th Symphony, 2nd movement, again.)
KASHYK: Captain. Good to see you again. 
JANEWAY: Likewise. 
KASHYK: Tchaikovsky. Of all the selections in your database, this remains my favourite. 
JANEWAY: Mine, too. 
KASHYK: I'm afraid Prax isn't impressed. He's solely concerned with his work, aren't you, Prax? 
PRAX: As you say, sir. 
KASHYK: Yes, he's curious why you entered this sector. You're aware it's restricted. 
JANEWAY: We were planning to study a supernova remnant not far from here. 
KASHYK: You strayed a full light year from your course in order to observe an astronomical phenomenon? 
JANEWAY: We're explorers. 
KASHYK: Yes, I remember. I also remember warning you about going where you don't belong. 
JANEWAY: Exploring can sometimes be hard to resist, Inspector. 
KASHYK: Well, it's a romantic notion, Captain, but one I can't allow you to indulge. I'm afraid I'll have to ask you to leave our space immediately. Prax, why don't you check on our teams while I reiterate our protocols for Captain Janeway. 
(Prax leaves.) 
JANEWAY: Do they suspect anything? 
KASHYK: Not yet, but our warships have been monitoring Voyager's movements for the past few days, and mine as well. I don't think we have much time. The Brenari? 
JANEWAY: They're in transporter suspension. 
KASHYK: And the wormhole? 
JANEWAY: We've found it. It's twenty thousand kilometres off our port bow. We've determined that a photon torpedo properly calibrated will force open the threshold long enough for Voyager to get through. 
KASHYK: Congratulations, Captain. For a while, I wasn't sure if even you could find it. Prax! 
(Prax enters.)
KASHYK: Go to Cargo Bay one. You'll find the transporter patterns for more than a dozen telepaths. Rematerialise them. 
PRAX: Yes, sir. 
JANEWAY: Impressive. You gave a masterful performance. 
KASHYK: I'm the one who's impressed, with your selflessness, your humanity. It made all this so much easier. 
JANEWAY: Oh, but what about your selflessness? That touching story about the little girl. Was that a fabrication, too? 
KASHYK: Oh, that incident was real. What I didn't tell you was that after wrestling with my ethics, I realised that I'd done the right thing in order to protect my people from a very real threat. Please. I insist. 
[Bridge]
(Janeway is escorted onto the bridge at gunpoint. There are only Devore here.)
KASHYK: Captain. 
(Janeway takes Chakotay's chair, and he takes hers.)
KASHYK: Access their forward sensor array. You should find neutrino emissions at roughly twenty thousand kilometres off the port bow. On screen. Target two photon torpedoes. When the first one detonates, the wormhole will open. Use the second one to destabilise its subspace matrix. That will destroy it. Prax, report! 
[Cargo Bay one]
PRAX: I've isolated the bio-patterns. 
[Bridge]
KASHYK: Fire! It should have detonated. Those aren't neutrino emissions, they're antimatter residue signatures. There's no wormhole here. You created false readings. 
JANEWAY: That is the theme for this evening, isn't it? 
KASHYK: Prax, do you have the telepaths? 
[Cargo Bay one]
PRAX: I have cargo containers. (He opens one.)
PRAX: Filled with vegetables. 
[Bridge]
KASHYK: Return to the bridge. 
JANEWAY: Computer, change music selection. Mahler's Symphony Number One, Second Movement. Maybe this will help you relax. 
DEVORE [OC]: Inspector, we have completed our inventory of the vessel. Two of their shuttlecraft are missing. 
KASHYK: They couldn't have gone far. Why didn't they appear on our long range scans? Of course! Adjust their scanners to compensate for refractive shielding. 
JANEWAY: Well, you gave us the specifications. Seemed a shame to waste them. 
DEVORE [OC]: We've located the two shuttlecraft. Range, twenty million kilometres. 
KASHYK: Order our ships to pursue. Maximum speed! 
[Shuttlecraft]
KIR: We're approaching the coordinates. I'm firing the torpedo. 
(The wormhole opens. They fly inside and it closes again.)
WOMAN: Kir, we're safe. 
[Bridge]
PRAX: The shuttles have disappeared from sensors. We've scanned for a wormhole. If there was one, it's gone. I'll order Janeway and her crew removed. We'll confiscate the vessel, deliver them to the nearest detention centre. 
KASHYK: You're dismissed. 
PRAX: Imperative twelve, codicil six requires 
KASHYK: To hell with protocol, Prax! Do you think either of us will benefit from having this failure on our records? As far as you're concerned, this incident never occurred. Make sure your teams share that understanding. 
(Prax and the other Devore leave.)
KASHYK: Well played, Captain. It seems I never did earn your trust. 
JANEWAY: I had to take a few precautions. You understand. 
KASHYK: Better than anyone. 
JANEWAY: I never lied to you. My offer to take you with us was genuine, and it would still stand if you'd kept your part of the bargain. 
KASHYK: For what it's worth, you made a tempting offer. The bridge is yours. 

