Episode Number: 711
The Voyager Transcripts - Repentance
Repentance
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 31 January 2001
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: This is Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Starship Voyager. We're responding to your distress call. 
YEDIQ [OC]: A ruptured conduit is flooding my ship with plasma radiation. We request immediate transport. 
KIM: I'm detecting eleven life signs. Two are weak. 
JANEWAY: Transport the injured to Sickbay and the rest to Cargo Bay one. I want security teams at both locations. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(Nine people are beamed in, three in dark overalls, six in light overalls. Tuvok and his team enters. The leader of the dark overalls discovers his hands are empty.)
YEDIQ: Our weapons! 
TUVOK: They'll be returned to you when you leave. 
YEDIQ: These are dangerous criminals. They have to be secured. 
TUVOK: We'll do our best to accommodate you. 
YEDIQ: I had eight men in custody. Where are the other two? 
[Sickbay]
EMH: We're not going to hurt you. 
(One of them has a laser scalpel to Seven's throat.)
IKO: Stay away or I'll kill her! 
EMH: I'm sure we can resolve this without resorting to violence. What is it you want? 
IKO: A ship, some food. 
EMH: I might be able to arrange that, but you'll have to release her first. 
IKO: I'm not a fool. 
(Tuvok and Yediq enter.) 
IKO: You know I'll do it. Tell them. 
YEDIQ: You're not getting off this ship. 
TUVOK: If you release her, I promise you won't be harmed. 
IKO: Not until I get a ship. 
YEDIQ: We don't negotiate with criminals. 
EMH: Who are you? 
YEDIQ: Warden Yediq of the Nygean Detention Force. This man is my prisoner. 
EMH: If that were true, he wouldn't be holding my friend hostage. 
(Seven elbows Iko in the stomach and is free, so he grabs the EMH;instead.) 
IKO: Get back! 
EMH: I'm a hologram. I can't be harmed. 
(Tuvok fires his phaser through the EMH and stuns Iko.) 
EMH: I think you proved my point. 
[Ready room]
YEDIQ: We're lucky you came along, Captain. Ten more minutes and none of use would have survived the plasma leak. 
TUVOK: Your vessel was equipped with escape pods. Why didn't you use them? 
YEDIQ: I couldn't risk letting any of the prisoners get away. As you've seen, they're extremely dangerous. 
CHAKOTAY: Where are you taking them? 
YEDIQ: Back to our homeworld. They're due to be executed. 
TUVOK: What were their crimes? 
YEDIQ: All eight are murderers. Three are multiple offenders. We're just thirteen light years from our system. I'd appreciate it if you'd take us back there. 
JANEWAY: Actually, we were headed in the opposite direction. 
YEDIQ: I could arrange for one of our ships to rendezvous with Voyager. It'll take several days. My prisoners will have to be strictly monitored. 
JANEWAY: Commander Tuvok will help you make arrangements. 
(Tuvok and Yediq leave.) 
CHAKOTAY: Some of the crew may not be comfortable helping to deliver eight men to their deaths. 
JANEWAY: I can't say I like it either, but we have a Prime Directive to follow. 
[Sickbay]
EMH: Thirty more seconds and I could have resolved the situation peacefully. Instead, you and Tuvok the Kid had to take matters into your own hands. 
(The EMH flickers.) 
SEVEN: You're damaged. 
EMH: Commander Tuvok's friendly fire must have caused a feedback surge in my emitters. 
SEVEN: I'll help you repair it. 
(Janeway enters.)
JANEWAY: How are you? 
SEVEN: Fine, Captain. 
IKO: You. This your ship? 
JANEWAY: Yes. 
IKO: Then let me out. 
JANEWAY: I'm afraid I can't do that. 
(Iko and the other injured prisoner are behind the surgical bay forcefield. He proves it by pushing against it as long as he can.)
IKO: If you don't, I'll kill you all. 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Tuvok. Are the prisoners' accommodations ready? 
TUVOK [OC]: Affirmative, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Then by all means, initiate transport. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(Iko and his companion are transported into mesh cages.)
YEDIQ: You're sure these will hold them? 
TUVOK: The force fields are impenetrable, as are the tritanium bulkheads. In addition to your staff, two Voyager security officers will remain here at all times. Two more will be posted at the entrance to the cargo bay. 
YEDIQ: What about our weapons? 
TUVOK: You'll be allowed to carry them in this area only. If you leave the cargo bay, you'll be asked to surrender them. 
YEDIQ: What's this? 
(Neelix is pushing a trolley.)
NEELIX: Dinner. Since you can't bring the prisoners to the mess hall, I've brought the mess hall to them. 
YEDIQ: What is it? 
NEELIX: Talaxian spice stew served over leola rice pilaf. It's an old family recipe. 
YEDIQ: Take it back. 
NEELIX: Too spicy? 
YEDIQ: These men don't deserve such an elaborate meal. Take it back. 
NEELIX: Federation guidelines are quite clear about the treatment of prisoners. 
TUVOK: He is correct. 
NEELIX: I can quote the protocols if you like. 
(Yediq confiscates the forks.)
YEDIQ: My men will assist you. 
(Neelix serves some stew into a bowl. A hole is created in a forcefield for him to pass it through to the first prisoner.)
JOLEG: Thanks for standing up to Yediq. 
NEELIX: Just doing my job. 
JOLEG: Still, it was kind. 
[Sickbay]
SEVEN: This would be easier if you would remain stationary. 
EMH: It doesn't feel right. 
SEVEN: You may experience unusual sensations while your matrix realigns. 
EMH: I was referring to the arrangement the captain's made with the Nygeans. No matter how terrible the crimes these men committed, it seems wrong to hand them over to be executed. This is a Federation Starship, not the Barge of the Dead. 
SEVEN: Would you have preferred the captain release them? 
EMH: Of course not. They're dangerous men. 
SEVEN: Executing them ensures they'll never pose a threat to anyone again. 
EMH: So would life sentences, the operative word being life. 
SEVEN: Confining them for life requires significant resources. The Nygeans may not think it worthwhile. 
EMH: What about rehabilitation? Given the chance, some of these men might become productive members of society one day. 
SEVEN: Their victims won't have the same opportunity. 
EMH: And that justifies taking their lives? An eye for an eye? It's not justice, it's revenge. Quite frankly, I'm surprised you're not troubled by such a barbaric system. 
SEVEN: I'm simply being objective. You often encourage me to see both sides of an argument. 
EMH: Well, this is one occasion when my programming won't allow me to be objective. Killing is wrong, no matter who's doing it. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(Iko throws his empty bowl across his cell.)
JOLEG: Still hungry? I can hear your stomach from here. This must be the first time in a month you couldn't steal poor Egrid's meal. 
(He rattles his cage.) 
JOLEG: Good, isn't it? 
(Iko throws his bowl at the forcefield. Yediq and a guard come down the row.)
YEDIQ: Is there a problem? 
JOLEG: Iko was just telling me he didn't get enough to eat. 
YEDIQ: I see. Cause another disturbance, and I'll see to it you're not fed the rest of this journey. Do you understand? 
IKO: Boche and Ledara. 
YEDIQ: What did you say? 
IKO: Your children. 
YEDIQ: How did you know that? 
IKO: Are you sure they're safe? 
YEDIQ: Some people don't understand why we deal so harshly with men like you. It's because you never learn. 
(Three Nygean guards enter Iko's cell and beat him up with their weapons. Two Starfleet guards come running.) 
ANDREWS: Stand down. Stand down! 
YEDIQ: He needs to be disciplined. 
ANDREWS: Lower your weapons and step away.
(Yediq nods and his men obey after a last kick. Iko lies bleeding and unconscious on the deck.) 
[Ready room]
YEDIQ: Our response was justified. 
JANEWAY: How do you justify beating a defenceless man? 
YEDIQ: Violence is the only thing he understands. 
JANEWAY: You seem to have a pretty good grasp of it yourself. 
YEDIQ: Do not presume to tell me how to handle my prisoners, Captain. You don't know Iko like I do. He killed a young father for no reason. Before that, he committed dozens of violent crimes. He spent his entire life hurting people. 
JANEWAY: That doesn't excuse what you did to him. Until your transport vessel gets here, you and your men won't be allowed in the cargo bay. You're in charge of the prisoners. 
TUVOK: Aye, Captain. 
YEDIQ: They're my responsibility. 
JANEWAY: Not as long as you're aboard my ship. I won't risk any more violence. 
YEDIQ: The only risk will be to your crew. Commander Tuvok isn't qualified to guard prisoners this dangerous. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok has been a Starfleet Security officer for a very long time. Believe me, he's qualified. 
YEDIQ: I hope you're right. 
[Sickbay]
(Iko has been transported for treatment. Seven enters.)
EMH: You remember Mister Iko. 
SEVEN: Vividly. 
EMH: The Nygeans decided to make an example of him. 
SEVEN: Did you call me here to make a point about Nygean barbarity? 
EMH: I called you here because I need your help to save his life. He sustained a severe blow to the head which has caused severe oedema in his parietal lobe. It's blocking vital neurotransmitters. I'd like to programme some of your nanoprobes to bypass the oedema. 
SEVEN: I'll comply. 
EMH: I sense a but coming. 
SEVEN: It seems inefficient to save the life of someone who's about to be executed. 
EMH: If the Nygeans insist on killing him, there isn't much I can do about it. But I won't let them do it on Voyager. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(Neelix is serving the next meal.)
JOLEG: I didn't expect to see you back so soon. Ordinarily, we're lucky to get one meal a day. 
NEELIX: That's terrible. 
JOLEG: Yediq likes to keep us hungry. 
PRISONER [OC]: Less talk. We're hungry. 
JOLEG: You're wondering why I'm here. 
NEELIX: Excuse me? 
JOLEG: You're wondering what I did to end up with men like them. 
NEELIX: You killed someone. 
JOLEG: That's right. 
(Neelix hands Joleg his meal.)
NEELIX: Why? 
JOLEG: Because I'm Benkaran. 
NEELIX: What does that have to do with it? 
JOLEG: It's common knowledge that all Benkarans are criminals. So when I was found in the vicinity of a murder, I was immediately arrested. 
NEELIX: Are you saying you didn't do it? 
JOLEG: I told you, I'm Benkaran. What I say doesn't matter. 
[Sickbay]
(The EMH wakes Iko.)
EMH: You suffered severe neurological trauma, but I believe we've repaired the damage. 
IKO: Thank you. 
EMH: Don't thank me, thank Seven of Nine. She donated the nanoprobes that saved your life. 
IKO: Oh, my head. 
EMH: The pain is normal. I'll prepare an analgesic. 
(The EMH walks through the forcefield.)
IKO: You're not afraid of me. 
SEVEN: There's no reason to fear someone in your condition. 
IKO: You were never afraid of me. Not even when I tried to kill you. It's nice to look into someone's eyes and not see fear. 
[Galley]
PARIS [OC]: You have to be a criminal to get something to eat around here? 
(Neelix is reading a PADD while tending a pot.)
NEELIX: Sorry. Dinner will be ready in fifteen minutes. 
(Torres slides the shutters apart.)
TORRES: You said that fifteen minutes ago. 
NEELIX: Did you know the Nygeans govern a sector of space occupied by several different humanoid species? 
PARIS: If we say yes, will you feed us? 
NEELIX: One of those species is the Benkarans. They occupy just ten percent of Nygean space, but take up nearly eighty percent of the space in Nygean prisons. 
PARIS: Maybe they commit more crimes. 
NEELIX: Not according to Joleg, one of the prisoners. 
TORRES: You think he was given a harsher sentence because of his species? 
NEELIX: According to this, Benkarans are ten times more likely to be executed for their crimes than Nygeans. 
TORRES: Where'd you get that? 
NEELIX: I contacted the Nygean government. Told them I was interested in a cultural exchange. Among other things, they let me access data on their criminal justice system. It all supports what Joleg told me. 
PARIS: Neelix. 
NEELIX: I know what you're thinking. 
PARIS: That you're the softest touch in the Delta Quadrant. 
NEELIX: These are the transcripts from Joleg's trial. He was convicted on circumstantial evidence. 
PARIS: Let me guess. He was in the wrong place at the wrong time? 
NEELIX: Apparently. 
PARIS: Neelix, when I was in the Federation penal colony, everybody had a story. I never put much stock in them. Neither should you. 
NEELIX: How many of those people were sentenced to die? 
[Sickbay]
IKO: I still don't understand. Why weren't you hurt? 
EMH: Because my matrix is photonic. I'm made of light. 
SEVEN: You wanted to see me? 
EMH: I'll be with you in just a moment. 
IKO: You don't feel pain? 
EMH: Well, I suppose my pride has been wounded on occasion. 
IKO: I wish I was made of light. 
EMH: Try to rest. 
(He walks through security forcefield.) 
EMH: Mister Iko responded so well to the first dose of nanoprobes, I thought a second might improve his condition further. It'll only take a moment to extract them. 
SEVEN: You and Mister Iko seem to be getting along well. 
EMH: It's the strangest thing. When he first arrived he was crude, abusive. Now he's a model patient. Grateful, considerate. 
SEVEN: He's obviously an unstable individual. Inconsistent behaviour is hardly surprising. 
EMH: Still, if it weren't for the security detail, I'd forget he was a criminal. 
SEVEN: It's possible he's trying to manipulate you. 
IKO: Doctor? 
EMH: What's the matter? 
IKO: My stomach. 
EMH: I'm not detecting anything. 
IKO: I, I can't. 
EMH: What's wrong? 
IKO: I can't stop thinking about the man I killed. 
SEVEN: That's not surprising. You're experiencing guilt. 
IKO: Is that why I'm feeling sick? 
EMH: Nausea could be a symptom of guilt. 
IKO: I've never felt guilty before. 
SEVEN: You've committed many crimes. 
IKO: None of them made me feel like this. Why did you do this to me? 
SEVEN: We're not responsible for your guilt. 
IKO: I didn't feel this way until you put those nanoprobes in me. You knew this would happen, didn't you? This is some kind of punishment. Take the nanoprobes out. 
EMH: You could die. 
IKO: Please. I don't want to feel this way anymore.;
[Medical lab]
SEVEN: You don't honestly believe we're responsible for his condition. 
EMH: We applied the Borg technology. It's possible there were some unforeseen side effects. 
SEVEN: Guilt, for example. 
EMH: Look at this. 
(Cerebral Scan 1027)
SEVEN: What? 
EMH: It's my most recent scan. The neurotransmitters have established new pathways throughout his cortex. 
SEVEN: Wasn't that your intention? 
EMH: No, I was simply trying to bypass the oedema. 
SEVEN: Then how did this happen? 
EMH: I don't know. It's possible this is normal Nygean brain activity, but I have no basis for comparison. 
SEVEN: You should ask Mister Yediq to contact a Nygean medical official. Maybe they could provide some relevant information.;
[Sickbay]
IKO: Seven of Nine. Stay and talk to me. 
SEVEN: I'm extremely busy. 
IKO: Please. I'm scared. 
SEVEN: What did you want to discuss? I'm due in Astrometrics, so if there's 
IKO: Astrometrics? What's that? 
SEVEN: A laboratory where we observe stellar phenomena. 
IKO: When I was a child, I'd lie under the stars for hours. I'd stare at them until I could see the shapes. 
SEVEN: Shapes? 
IKO: Faces and animals made out of stars. 
SEVEN: You're referring to constellations. 
IKO: I named them. There was Paedos the warrior, and Gezid the beast. No matter how hard he tried Paedos could never catch Gezid. 
SEVEN: Because the distance between them always remained the same. 
IKO: You've seen them? 
SEVEN: Possibly. I've catalogued approximately six billion stars. 
IKO: Then you must have seen Onella, too. The Mother. 
SEVEN: Describe her. 
IKO: She was surrounded by sixteen smaller stars. Her daughters. If I try, I think I can remember all their names. 
[Cargo Bay one]
JOLEG: Eleven six, green. 
PRISONER [OC]: What's going on over there? 
JOLEG: Kot-kot.
NEELIX: That's Kadis-kot. Congratulations. 
PRISONER [OC]: Down here.
NEELIX: I've been doing some research on the Nygean legal system. You were right about the Benkarans receiving harsher sentences. I saw the statistics. 
JOLEG: The statistics won't save me. 
NEELIX: I noticed some people convicted of murder, even terrible premeditated murders, weren't executed. Some aren't punished at all. But you were sentenced to death. 
JOLEG: That's what the family wants. 
NEELIX: The family? 
JOLEG: After you're convicted, the family of the victim sentences you. 
NEELIX: Well, shouldn't you be sentenced by someone less partial, like a judge? 
JOLEG: Vekto valek k'vadim. It's ancient Nygean. It means Favour The Victims. What if I stole your game board? What right would a judge have to assign value to your loss? To him, it's just a game board, but to you it might be a priceless family possession. And what if I murdered your child? 
NEELIX: I think I get your point. 
JOLEG: Vekto valek k'vadim. It's the basis for the Nygean legal system. 
NEELIX: What about the criminals that didn't serve any sentence at all? 
JOLEG: Some people prefer restitution to revenge. If a defendant is wealthy enough, he can negotiate a settlement with the victim's family. 
NEELIX: Oh, that doesn't seem fair. 
JOLEG: It's perfectly fair, unless you're destitute. 
NEELIX: Maybe I can talk to the captain about finding a way to compensate your victims. 
JOLEG: I'm grateful. But it would imply I'm guilty. I wouldn't want that. 
NEELIX: There must be something I can do. 
JOLEG: You can transmit a letter to my brother. I'd like to let him know what's happened to me. 
NEELIX: I'll get a PADD. 
[Sickbay]
(Seven enters with a security guard, who lets her through the forcefield.)
SEVEN: I thought you might find this interesting. 
(She gives Iko a PADD and leaves him.)
IKO: What is it? 
SEVEN: It's an Astrometrics log. It contains data on various star formations. 
IKO: It's just words and numbers. I'd rather look at the stars. 
SEVEN: I'll bring you a star chart after my next shift. 
IKO: What's the metal above your eye? 
SEVEN: It's a cybernetic implant. 
IKO: Where did you get it? 
SEVEN: It was installed by the Borg. 
IKO: It must have hurt. 
SEVEN: I don't recall. 
IKO: I hurt people. I deserve to die. 
(The EMH comes out of the medical lab.)
EMH: Seven? I found something. 
[Medical lab]
(Cerebral scan 1028)
EMH: This is a scan depicting a healthy Nygean brain. This node is analogous to the human pineal gland. In addition to controlling behavioural impulses, it regulates decision making. You might say it's the physiological equivalent of a conscience. 
SEVEN: Normally, the node connects to the rest of the brain through a series of neural pathways. 
EMH: Now look at this scan of Iko's node before we applied the nanoprobes. It's detached. 
JANEWAY: Did that happen when he was assaulted? 
EMH: No, I believe it's congenital. A birth defect. 
SEVEN: Without the node, Iko would have been prone to violence and sociopathic behaviour all his life. 
EMH: When I used Seven's nanoprobes to treat the injuries from the assault, it seems they inadvertently repaired the defect as well. 
JANEWAY: You've activated his conscience. Well, that would explain why he's suddenly experiencing guilt. 
EMH: There's more to it than that. I believe he's become capable of controlling his violent impulses. 
JANEWAY: Capable maybe, but how do you know he will? 
EMH: Even the thought of violence makes him ill now. In my opinion, he's no longer a threat to anyone. 
SEVEN: By some definitions, Captain, he's not the same man who committed the murder. 
[Briefing room]
YEDIQ: Are you suggesting we release him? 
EMH: Of course not. But at the very least his case should be re-examined. 
YEDIQ: Because he's sorry. 
SEVEN: There's new medical evidence to be considered. 
YEDIQ: None of it changes the fact that he killed a man. 
SEVEN: He was suffering from a neurological defect. He couldn't control his behaviour. 
EMH: If Iko had been diagnosed and treated, he never would have committed that crime. In a matter of speaking, he's a victim of his own biology. 
YEDIQ: So Iko is the victim now? 
JANEWAY: No one's denying that he committed a terrible crime. But as a result of the Doctor's treatments he's undergone a fundamental change. Killing him won't accomplish anything. 
YEDIQ: That's not your decision to make. 
SEVEN: Nor is it yours. 
YEDIQ: He's obviously deceiving you somehow. 
JANEWAY: Listen, we could debate this all day but the fact is, our personal opinions are irrelevant. All that matters is Nygean law. 
TUVOK: Does Iko have a legal means of appeal at his disposal? 
YEDIQ: In accordance with Nygean penal code, a capital defendant has a right to appeal his sentence to the family of his victims. 
JANEWAY: Then I'd like you to help Commander Tuvok draft an appeal and submit it to the proper authorities. 
[Sickbay]
IKO: Take back the appeal. 
SEVEN: You'd rather die because you think it'll relieve your pain. 
IKO: Death is what I deserve. You say I've changed, but I look at these hands every day and I see them squeezing that man's throat. And I hear the sounds he made. I'm disgusting. 
SEVEN: Do you think I'm disgusting? 
IKO: You've been nothing but kind to me. 
SEVEN: You asked me earlier if it hurt when my occipital implant was installed. I told you I didn't remember. But the truth is, it was one of the most painful experiences of my life. 
IKO: Why did you lie? 
SEVEN: It's difficult for me to talk about, because I forced others to undergo the same procedure. 
IKO: Why? 
SEVEN: I was compelled to do so by the Borg Collective. I wasn't in control of my actions, just as you weren't in control when you took a life. My nanoprobes have given you control. You're a different person now. You don't deserve to be executed. 
(Iko pushes against the forcefield.)
IKO: I want to go back to my cell. 
SEVEN: You're free to remain here. 
IKO: Am I still sick? 
SEVEN: No, but 
IKO: Then I don't want special treatment. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(Mealtime. Iko is back in his cell.)
NEELIX: I'm glad to see you're feeling better. You must be hungry. Here you go. 
IKO: Give it to him. 
(A prisoner across the gangway, probably Egrid.)
NEELIX: He's already had his dinner. 
IKO: Please. 
NEELIX: All right. 
[Ready room]
SEVEN: You wanted to see me. 
JANEWAY: We just received a response from the Nygeans. The family has refused to consider the appeal. 
SEVEN: But the medical evidence 
JANEWAY: They won't look at it. 
YEDIQ: The family found the request insulting. 
SEVEN: Your government could insist that they review it. 
YEDIQ: We have laws that protect victims from emotional distress. 
SEVEN: In that case, we should grant Iko asylum aboard Voyager. 
YEDIQ: You agreed to work within the confines of our legal system. 
SEVEN: Your system is flawed. 
JANEWAY: That's enough, Seven. I assure you, we'll abide by the family's decision. Now I need a moment alone with Seven, if you don't mind. 
(Yediq leaves.) 
JANEWAY: We did everything we could to help him. 
SEVEN: We have to do more. 
JANEWAY: You barely know this man. Why are you so passionate about helping him? 
SEVEN: I want to give him the same opportunity you gave me. When you severed my link to the Collective, you changed who I was. You made it possible for me to reclaim my humanity. Because of my nanoprobes, Iko has undergone a similar change. He should be given the chance to atone for his crimes. 
JANEWAY: Atonement. Is that what this is about? 
SEVEN: Yes. 
JANEWAY: For him, or for you? 
SEVEN: I don't know what you mean. 
JANEWAY: I think part of you still feels responsible for the violent acts you committed when you were a Borg. 
SEVEN: You're mistaken. 
JANEWAY: Am I? Maybe you believe if Iko is found not guilty, somehow you won't be guilty either. You said it yourself. You've reclaimed your humanity. It's time you stopped blaming yourself for the crimes of the Collective. 
(Whumph!) 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: Report. 
CHAKOTAY: An alien vessel just dropped out of warp and opened fire. 
(The forcefields on the cells flicker.)
KIM: We've lost power on decks eight through ten. 
JANEWAY: The cargo bay. 
(Tuvok leaves);
[Cargo Bay one]
(The forcefields fail and some prisoners overpower the guards.)
PRISONER: Follow me. Let's storm the bridge.
(Iko stays in his cell.)
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Shields down to sixty percent. 
KIM: Still no response to hails. 
JANEWAY: Evasive manoeuvres. Target their weapons. 
(The Nygeans shoot one of the prisoners in a corridor.)
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to bridge. The attacking ship is attempting to transport one of the prisoners. 
KIM: They're trying to lock on to all five Benkaran life signs. 
JANEWAY: Target their transporter array. 
CHAKOTAY: Direct hit. They're retreating. 
PARIS: Pursuit course? 
JANEWAY: No. We have more immediate problems. Bridge to Tuvok. What's your status? 
[Corridor]
TUVOK: We've neutralised two of the prisoners. 
[Bridge]
KIM: Someone's trying to get into the shuttlebay. 
JANEWAY: Lock them out. 
[Outside the Shuttlebay]
(A prisoner is using a phaser rifle to blast their way in.)
JOLEG: Again. 
(Yediq shoots him.)
YEDIQ: Stand back. 
(A rifle is pressed against his neck.)
PRISONER: Don't move. 
(Yediq is disarmed and taken hostage. Tuvok arrives.) 
JOLEG: You have five minutes to get us a shuttle. 
TUVOK: Tuvok to bridge. Lock on to Yediq's signature and beam him to 
JANEWAY [OC]: Transporters are offline. We need at least ten minutes to get them up and running. 
[Cargo Bay one]
JOLEG: Seal it. 
(A prisoner welds the doors shut with his rifle.) 
YEDIQ: You're not getting off this ship. 
JOLEG: Then I suppose I should kill you right now. 
IKO: Don't! He's mine. You saw how they beat me. 
(Joleg gives Iko the phaser.) 
YEDIQ: I knew it was a trick. I knew you hadn't changed. 
(Joleg laughs. Iko gives Yediq the phaser and he stuns the other prisoners. But he cannot shoot Iko.) 
Captain's log, supplemental. Warden Yediq has used his influence to convince the Nygean family to hear Iko's appeal for leniency. 
[Bridge]
(The family are on the viewscreen.)
IKO: I won't beg for my life. It belongs to you. I only want you to understand what's happened to me. I'm a different person now. A better person. This crew has helped me to see that. If my death helps you find peace, I can accept it. But if you let me live, I will never hurt anyone again. Whatever you decide, please know how sorry I am for what I took from you. 
[Cargo Bay one]
(The cell forcefields are working again.)
JOLEG: Are we playing Kadis-kot later? 
NEELIX: Sorry. 
JOLEG: Afraid I'll beat you again? 
NEELIX: I tried to help you and you took advantage of me. 
JOLEG: What do you mean? 
NEELIX: The note we sent your brother. He traced the transmission to Voyager. He's the one who attacked us. 
JOLEG: Neelix, I swear I had no idea he would do that. You have to believe me. 
NEELIX: I read Yediq's security report. You threatened to kill him. 
JOLEG: I can't eat this. 
NEELIX: Why not? 
JOLEG: I'm sick. 
NEELIX: You look fine to me. 
JOLEG: No, I must have the same condition Iko had. If your Doctor cures me, I can make an appeal for my life, too.
(Neelix walks away.) 
[Astrometrics lab]
IKO: She's beautiful, isn't she. 
SEVEN: Onella the Mother. 
IKO: And there's Paedos, still watching over her. It was kind of Captain Janeway to let you bring me here. 
SEVEN: If your appeal is successful you'll be able to go wherever you want. 
IKO: I hope you're right. 
SEVEN: If I am, where will you go? 
IKO: I don't know. 
SEVEN: If you'd like, I could ask Captain Janeway to consider letting you stay here. 
IKO: I'm not a scientist. I don't think I'd be much help to anyone. 
SEVEN: There are other ways to be useful. I'm sure we could think of something. 
IKO: I'd like that. 
(Janeway and Yediq enter with a guard.)
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. The family has denied your appeal. 
YEDIQ: We're due to rendezvous with a transport ship in a few hours. I need to return you to your cell. 
(Iko puts his hand on Seven's shoulder.)
IKO: You were the first person who wasn't afraid to look me in the eye. That's how I'd like to remember you.
(Seven turns and looks at him. Iko leaves with Yediq and the guard. After a moment, Janeway leaves too. She returns some time later.)
JANEWAY: I just finished looking over your warp core analysis. 
SEVEN: And? 
JANEWAY: I'm impressed. It usually takes a few days to finish one of these. B'Elanna tells me you did it in twenty two hours. 
SEVEN: I haven't felt the need to regenerate. 
JANEWAY: Everyone grieves in their own way. If you want to talk, you know where to find me. 
SEVEN: It's unfair. 
JANEWAY: I think so too, Seven. But we have to try not to judge their system. 
SEVEN: That's not what I meant. Iko was executed for taking a single life. As a drone I took thousands, but I was never punished. 
JANEWAY: You lost twenty years of your life to the Borg. I'd say that's punishment enough. 

