Episode Number: 208
The Voyager Transcripts - Resistance
Resistance
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: November 27 1995
[Market place]
(The crew are in civilian clothes, mingling with the locals. Neelix hands over a vial to Janeway, who scans it.) 
JANEWAY: We need this completely filled. We don't have time to haggle over price. 
NEELIX: Understood. 
(Neelix leaves.) 
TUVOK: Captain. 
(The local police, in black leather and motorcycle helmets enter. They try to get away but the police grab them. Tuvok stuns one, Janeway and Torres fight others.) 
JANEWAY: Janeway to Voy 
(Janeway is shot in the neck.) 
GUARD: Get up. 
(Tuvok and Torres are arrested. A guard takes Janeway's comm. badge then a little man comes running up.) 
CAYLEM: Get away from her! 
[Engineering]
KIM: Commander, any word on that tellerium? 
CHAKOTAY: Not yet. How bad is it? 
KIM: The anti-matter reaction rate is down to twelve percent. If it drops below nine, the plasma injectors will lock up and we'll never be able to re-initialise the nacelles. 
CHAKOTAY: Options? 
KIM: If we're going to reduce our power demands even further, we're going to have to drop the shields. 
CHAKOTAY: I don't want to leave the ship defenceless this close to a hostile planet. 
KIM: All other systems are already offline. Life support is at minimal. You asked for options? That's our last one. 
CHAKOTAY: All right, power down the shields. 
KIM: That helped. It's only a matter of time. There's nothing more we can do without the tellerium. 
NEELIX [OC]: Neelix to Voyager. 
CHAKOTAY: Yes, Neelix.
NEELIX [OC]: The rest of the away team is gone, Commander. They've been taken by the Mokra. What do you want me to do? 
CHAKOTAY: Did you get the tellerium? 
NEELIX [OC]: Yes, I have it. 
CHAKOTAY: Then we need you here. Prepare to beam directly to Engineering. 
KIM: Re-routing emergency power to Transporter room two and energising.
(Neelix and the vial are beamed into Engineering.) 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to away team. Captain, can you hear me? 
KIM: Unlock the control conduit. 
CHAKOTAY: Tuvok, Torres, please respond. 
KIM: Keep an eye on the flow rate. 
CREWMAN: Yes, sir. Rate's holding steady. 
KIM: Reaction rate has stabilised at thirteen percent. Up to fifteen, eighteen. 
NEELIX: It worked then. We're all right. 
KIM: Maybe. Once the rate is up to normal, we'll try getting the warp drive back online. Then we'll see if there was any damage. 
CHAKOTAY: Begin rerouting power back to all key systems. What happened down there? 
NEELIX: I don't know exactly. I went in the shop, completed the trade, then I heard weapons fire on the street. By the time I got out there the Captain and the others were gone. 
CHAKOTAY: Are you sure it was the Mokra? 
NEELIX: I spoke to witnesses on the street. They said it was quite a fight. 
CHAKOTAY: Any idea how the Mokra knew you were down there? 
NEELIX: Someone must have told them we were coming. The Mokra have informants everywhere. 
CHAKOTAY: Could your contact be one of them? 
NEELIX: I don't think I would have made it back here with the tellerium if he had been. Besides, he's involved with the Alsaurian resistance movement. He would never help the Mokra. 
CHAKOTAY: They've probably got the resistance movement under surveillance. 
KIM: Commander, I think we're ready to give the engines a try. I'm opening the plasma injectors. Warp engines are back online. All systems normal. 
CHAKOTAY: Good work, Mister Kim. Mister Neelix, you're with me. I think it's time we contacted the Mokra. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Mister Paris, set a new course. Bring us out from behind the moon and establish a standard orbit around the planet. Slowly. We don't want to look aggressive. 
PARIS: Yes, sir. 
CHAKOTAY: What kind of response can we expect when they see us? 
NEELIX: The Mokra are paranoid and hostile. They have no use for diplomacy. I wouldn't be surprised if they started shooting at us immediately. 
PARIS: We'll be in full view of the planet in a few seconds. Orbital sensor net has picked us up. They're scanning the ship. We're being hailed. 
CHAKOTAY: On screen.
AUGRIS [on viewscreen]: I am third magistrate Augris of the Mokra Order. 
CHAKOTAY: Commander Chakotay of the Federation starship Voyager. 
AUGRIS [on viewscreen]: May I assume you're seeking permission to conduct business with us? 
CHAKOTAY: No. Some of my crewmembers have already been to the surface. We've lost contact with them. 
AUGRIS [on viewscreen]: I see. You must have been unaware of our regulations. I'll transfer a complete copy for future reference. 
CHAKOTAY: I have reason to believe they're being detained. 
AUGRIS [on viewscreen]: Detained? That's possible. I'll look into it for you. I'll contact you shortly. 
CHAKOTAY: Thank you. 
NEELIX: He's not like any Mokra I've ever met. I can't believe he'll really help us. 
CHAKOTAY: If there's any chance for a diplomatic solution, we have to pursue it. In the meantime, I want continuous scans of the surface. Standard search pattern. 
[Detention cell]
(Torres is examining the yellow glowing barrier around the doorway.) 
TUVOK: I advise caution. 
TORRES: There's a control circuit there. I can see it. (shock) If only we knew that Neelix made it back to the ship with the tellerium, then at least this would be worth it. 
TUVOK: I regret I have no such reassurance to offer you. 
TORRES: We don't even know what happened to the Captain. She might have been killed out there on the street. 
TUVOK: That is possible. It is also possible that she is safely returned to Voyager. We have insufficient evidence to dismiss either conclusion. 
TORRES: I guess that's the Vulcan way of telling me to hope for the best. 
[Caylem's home]
(A single room. Caylem is singing to himself near the doorway when Janeway wakes. Her neck wound has a green plaster on it.) 
CAYLEM: Look who's awake. Just rest. You must be thirsty. Maybe hungry for a little something? What shall I make? What can I make? What? What? 
(Janeway feels for her comm. badge.) 
JANEWAY: Where am I? 
CAYLEM: Oh, it hasn't been that long. I wish I had some. This will do. Drink. 
JANEWAY: Thank you. 
CAYLEM: I'll fix you some soup. Now, just lie down. 
JANEWAY: You're very kind but I have 
CAYLEM: You're safe now. 
JANEWAY: I really can't 
CAYLEM: Shush. Don't worry. Everything's all right now. My little girl is home. 
(Later.) 
JANEWAY: I'm very grateful for everything you've done for me. 
CAYLEM: But you know there's nothing I wouldn't do for my sweet Ralkana. 
JANEWAY: My name is Kathryn Janeway. 
CAYLEM: Kathryn? That's an unusual name. Very pretty. I like it. 
JANEWAY: I am a starship Captain. It is very important that I contact my ship. 
CAYLEM: Wonderful. Captain Kathryn of a glorious starship. Then what happens? Go on, I'm listening. I love your stories. 
JANEWAY: It's not a story, it's a request. May I use your communications equipment? 
CAYLEM: Communications. Oh, we're not supposed to have any of that. The Mokra don't allow it. 
JANEWAY: They can't have control of everything. Surely there's someone who has an illegal transmitter. 
CAYLEM: I know what you'd like. Some talsa root soup. 
JANEWAY: Can you at least tell me what happened to the other people I was with on the street. 
CAYLEM: You really should be more careful out there. Those Mokra will pick a fight for no reason. I don't want you getting hurt again. But I saw the way you handled that ugly one. I couldn't have done any better. I was so proud of you, Ralkana. 
JANEWAY: My two friends. Did the Mokra take them? 
CAYLEM: I'm afraid so. 
JANEWAY: Where would they have been taken. A detention centre? 
CAYLEM: The prison. 
JANEWAY: All right. How do I get there? 
CAYLEM: The soup. I'm forgetting the soup. 
JANEWAY: I appreciate your hospitality, but I can't stay here. I've got to get to that prison. 
CAYLEM: You're right. The time has come. Now that we're together again, we can't wait another day. My beautiful and brave girl. The Mokra won't stand a chance against us. 
JANEWAY: You're very kind to offer, but I didn't mean we'd be going together. 
CAYLEM: You must eat and rest to get your strength back. We'll leave soon enough. We don't want to keep her waiting any longer than we have to. 
JANEWAY: Keep who waiting? 
CAYLEM: She must miss you so terribly. It's hard to bear thinking of her alone in that dark cell. It's been difficult for all of us. Don't worry, we'll get her out. You'll see your mother again. 
[Briefing room]
AUGRIS: Our world has come under attack before. You can understand our concern at finding strangers who arrive secretly from a hidden ship. 
CHAKOTAY: I assure you we have no hostile intentions. 
AUGRIS: I believe you, but some of my colleagues are cautious about dealing with disreputable ships. 
NEELIX: What does that mean? 
AUGRIS: It seems you've been making more enemies than friends since you arrived from the Alpha quadrant, is it? Some think even that story is a lie. 
CHAKOTAY: But not you. 
AUGRIS: Of course not. I'm here to help. 
CHAKOTAY: Then I'd like to talk to my crewmembers. 
AUGRIS: I'm afraid that will be difficult in the current climate of mistrust. Perhaps if you could tell us more about what brought you here, who you've been dealing with. 
CHAKOTAY: I'll consider that, after I talk to my crewmembers. 
AUGRIS: You're not making it very easy for me to help you. Let me see what I can arrange. It may take some time. Commander. 
(Augris and his escort leave.) 
CHAKOTAY: Talk to your contacts again. I want an alternative to sitting here waiting for him to get back to us. 
[Detention cell]
TUVOK: Your question is based on a faulty assumption. I cannot answer it. 
AUGRIS: You can't deny being in contact with the Resistance. 
TUVOK: I deny that we are intending to supply them with weapons. 
AUGRIS: These lies are useless. We know that you are helping the subversives. I want names. 
TUVOK: I have none to give you. 
TORRES: We told you already. We don't know anything about the Resistance. 
AUGRIS: I've heard that many times, from many people. Take him. 
(The forcefield is lowered, and Torres grabs the guard that steps through.) 
TUVOK: Lieutenant, stop! That will not help either of us. 
AUGRIS: He's right. 
[Caylem's home]
(There is a commotion outside. Caylem rushes in.) 
JANEWAY: I see soldiers out there. What's happening? 
CAYLEM: They're everywhere, searching the whole area. 
JANEWAY: I don't want to cause trouble for you. I'll go as soon as it's dark. 
CAYLEM: You've always been a troublemaker, ever since you could walk. I've never seen such a wilful child, but that's what I love most about you. Your spirit. Now, don't worry. When they come through here, we'll be gone already. Your mother will want some of her things. Ah, a pretty dress to wear. 
JANEWAY: They're only looking for me. You don't have to get any more involved that you already are. 
CAYLEM: Why, if my precious girl is involved, then I am involved too. 
(Caylem holds up a necklace.) 
CAYLEM: Do you remember this? She always used to wear it on special occasions. I think today would count as one. You know what I think she would like even more is to see you wear it. 
JANEWAY: I couldn't possibly take it. 
CAYLEM: Be careful. This won't heal if you move around too much. 
JANEWAY: If you want to help, tell me about that prison. What kind of security do they have? Are there forcefields, detection grids, physical barriers? 
CAYLEM: Yes. All of it. 
JANEWAY: What about guards? 
CAYLEM: Lots of guards. The Mokra make a big show of it, always bragging about how no one has ever escaped. 
JANEWAY: Listen to me. I can't bring you to the prison with me. It's too dangerous. 
CAYLEM: I'm not afraid. 
JANEWAY: And that could get both of us killed. You have to stay here. 
CAYLEM: If I stay here I can't bring the letters. 
JANEWAY: Letters? To the prison? 
CAYLEM: Letters. Don't you remember how we used to write to her together? Here they are. I still write them every week since she's been gone. I've always known that one day I'd be able to give them to her. I've never forgotten. 
JANEWAY: These are all to your wife? How long has it been? 
CAYLEM: My last letter. My last letter's not, it's not here. Oh. I wrote it three days ago, but it's not. I can't let her think I've stopped writing, that I gave up hope only days before. I'll write it again. My hand, my hand shakes sometimes. You write it so it looks nice. 
JANEWAY: I'm very sorry. I have to go before the soldiers come. 
CAYLEM: The last one. The last one was about. My memory isn't very good. Oh, I remember. I went walking in the morning. It was very cold. Tell her I wore my sweater. She worries about that sort of thing, and, and I what? And I saw that they had torn down that old building where you and the other children used to play. And tell her it rained for two and a half days. I don't know if she can see the sky where they're keeping her. And there was more. There was something about a friend. I, why can't I remember? I wanted to tell her! 
JANEWAY: It's all right. She'll understand. 
CAYLEM: Yes. Yes, you're right. She will. Please let me come with you. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry, that's not possible. 
GUARD [OC]: Check this one here. 
(The guard hammers on the door.) 
JANEWAY: Is there another way out? 
CAYLEM: There. 
GUARD [OC]: Open up there! Open the door, open the door now! Break it down! 
(Janeway and Caylem escape through a hole in the wall. The guards break in.) 
[Market place]
(Janeway taps gently on the shop door.) 
CAYLEM: This is a waste of time. We don't need him anyway. 
JANEWAY: I need him. If he's a member of the Resistance he may be able to help me contact my ship. 
(Caylem sees Augris.) 
CAYLEM: Monster! 
(Janeway drags him round the corner.) 
CAYLEM: He's the one. He took your mother. We have to 
JANEWAY: They want a fight. Don't give them one. 
MAN [OC]: I've done nothing. I've done nothing. Please. Please. 
AUGRIS: You look like a helpful citizen, so tell me. You might have seen some strangers who were in the market place earlier today? 
MAN: No, sir. No, sir, I've seen no one. Please. 
(The shopkeeper tries to sneak past.) 
AUGRIS: You! I'm looking for someone. A woman. 
DAROD: I haven't seen any woman. 
AUGRIS: There are two right over here. You see them, don't you? 
DAROD: Yes. 
AUGRIS: Maybe we should discuss this elsewhere. 
(Caylem dashes out.) 
JANEWAY: (sotto) Caylem! 
(Caylem starts acting the fool for the crowd, who laugh.) 
CAYLEM: Good morning! I seem to have lost my hat. It's about this big. 
(Caylem polishes Augris' boots. Darod gets away.) 
CAYLEM: Have you seen my hat? 
AUGRIS: Run along, old man. 
CAYLEM: Without my hat? 
(Augris puts a bun in Caylem's mouth, and half a melon on his head.) 
AUGRIS: There you go. 
(Augris and the guards leave. Janeway comes over.) 
CAYLEM: It's all right now. They've gone. 
(In the prison, Torres is looking for other means of escape when she hears Tuvok screaming.) 
[Bridge]
NEELIX: The prison is in the north east corner of the city. My sources tell me it's surrounded by metaphasic shields. 
CHAKOTAY: Can you find a way to beam through them? The Mokra aren't familiar with transporter technology. 
KIM: There is a periodic fluctuation in the shield's energy pattern. I'm working on a way to take advantage of it. 
NEELIX: There's only one problem with that. If the Mokra detect us breaking through their shields, we'll be surrounded by soldiers in seconds. 
PARIS: If we could beam in close enough to where the away team is being held, we might be able to get in and out of there before the Mokra had a chance to react. 
KIM: We can't locate the away team from here. The detention level is subterranean and the rock is too dense for our sensors to penetrate. You'll have to look for them after you beam into the prison. 
CHAKOTAY: Too dangerous. We can't risk beaming in. We have to find another way that the Mokra won't detect. Sounds like a challenge for you, Mister Kim. 
[Market place]
DAROD: You'd be welcome to use our transmitter if we still had one. The Mokra confiscated it this morning. 
JANEWAY: Then I'll have to find my crew members myself. I know two of them were arrested. What about Neelix? 
DAROD: He stayed inside with me then got transported up to your ship. 
JANEWAY: Good. What can you tell me about the prison. 
CAYLEM: I know about the prison. 
JANEWAY: We need all the information we can get. I have to reach my crew. 
DAROD: Don't you think there are people in there I'd like to get out? Any sane person would tell you it's impossible. 
CAYLEM: Spoken like a coward. 
DAROD: I've heard about you, old man. You're the coward. 
JANEWAY: Enough. 
DAROD: What are you doing with this lunatic? Has he been telling you stories of his brave deeds? They're just fantasies. Taking him along on this rescue mission of yours is just suicide. 
JANEWAY: He's already saved me from the Mokra once, and he saved you from those soldiers today. 
DAROD: All right, stay with him. Go up to the prison. Get yourself killed. 
JANEWAY: I won't get killed if you tell me what you know. 
DAROD: There are access tunnels on the north side. They'll get you in a little closer, but they're guarded. 
JANEWAY: I'll need weapons.
DAROD: They're not free.
JANEWAY: I don't have anything to trade. 
(Darod fingers the necklace.) 
DAROD: That's worth some weapons. 
JANEWAY: I can't. 
CAYLEM: Yes, you can. If it'll help to bring her back to us. 
JANEWAY: Thank you. 
DAROD: I can have someone meet you on the street in three hours to make the trade. He'll be wearing a blue vest. Watch for him. 
JANEWAY: We will. Thank you. 
DAROD: I'd wish you luck, but what you'll need is a miracle. 
(Later.) 
JANEWAY: He's more than three hours late. We have to consider the possibility that he's been arrested. 
CAYLEM: You mustn't believe what he told you about me. 
JANEWAY: I don't believe it. You're not a coward. 
CAYLEM: I had to keep my little girl safe. It was just too dangerous to get involved. Can you understand? Your mother wouldn't listen. She wanted to fight. She was always so passionate about what she believed in. She didn't care about the risk. 
JANEWAY: You were proud of her. 
CAYLEM: I didn't want to loose her. I didn't want you to grow up without a mother. I tried so hard to change her mind, and finally she changed mine. She convinced me to go with her. I said I would meet her by the river. She was leading a raid against a Mokra supply centre. I said I would meet her, but I didn't. I couldn't. I was too afraid. She was still waiting for me when they arrested her. I could never tell you about this. I knew you would hate me. I couldn't bear that. Please, Ralkana, if you can ever forgive me. 
(Janeway hugs Caylem.) 
MAN [OC]: All right, I'll be right there. 
CAYLEM: What is it? 
JANEWAY: A blue vest. 
CAYLEM: Then it's time to go. 
(Janeway gets up behind the man, then happens to look down. She drags Caylem away.) 
CAYLEM: What happened? 
JANEWAY: He was wearing military boots, like the Mokra. It was a trap. 
CAYLEM: A trap. And you saw it, my clever girl. We'll be all right. We have each other. That's we'll need. 
JANEWAY: It's not that simple. We can't just walk into the prison without weapons. 
(Janeway watches the pair of women walk past.) 
JANEWAY: Maybe we'll have to try a different strategy. 
[Detention cell]
(Tuvok is returned after his torture session.) 
AUGRIS: We don't have to ask your friend any more questions, if you give us the answers. 
TORRES: I told you I don't. 
(Torres stops herself from hitting Augris, who leaves.) 
TORRES: I'm sorry. I guess I always assumed that Vulcans didn't feel pain like the rest of us. That you were able to block it out somehow. Until I heard. Was that you I heard? 
TUVOK: Vulcans are capable of suppressing certain levels of physical pain. Beyond that we must simply endure the experience. 
TORRES: How can you say that so calmly? You must feel some anger at what they did to you, some desire to fight back. 
TUVOK: Under the circumstances, physical resistance is ineffective. We are fighting back by refusing to give them any information. 
GUARD [OC]: Get down there. 
(Darod is marched past at gunpoint.) 
[Tunnels]
GUARD: Three more hours. There's nothing going on around here. Wake me if the Lieutenant shows up, will you? 
(Janeway approaches, skirt split to the thigh and hair loose.) 
GUARD: You girls aren't supposed to come down here any more. 
JANEWAY: Do you want me to leave? 
GUARD: I didn't say that. 
JANEWAY: Then I won't. 
GUARD: If my Lieutenant saw you here I'd be in trouble. 
JANEWAY: Nobody will see us back here. It's dark. Private. 
(She takes the guard out of sight of his companion, and Caylem knocks him out.) 
CAYLEM: I like the strategy. 
(Janeway takes the guard's gun and shoots the other one. Then she works on the forcefield control. Caylem takes the guard's dagger.) 
CAYLEM: We're ready to go. 
JANEWAY: No, you're not coming with me.
CAYLEM: Of course I am. We settled this. You told that man, Darod, how I saved you from the Mokra! 
JANEWAY: You did save me. Now I'm returning the favour. 
(The forcefield vanishes. Janeway steps through and it reactivates.) 
JANEWAY: I promise I'll try to find your wife. 
CAYLEM: Wait! Ralkana! No! 
[Bridge]
KIM: I've been studying their orbital sensor net. It surrounds the entire planet. This is the most sophisticated system I've ever seen. It monitors everything we do. There's no way of disabling it from orbit. 
CHAKOTAY: So much for a surprise attack. 
KIM: We may still be able to surprise them, even if they do see us coming. We can modify the main deflector to send out dozens of radion beams which should penetrate the prison shields. One of them will carry our transporter signal but the sensor net won't be able to distinguish which one, so the Mokra won't know the exact location we're beaming to. 
CHAKOTAY: And they won't know where to concentrate their defences. 
KIM: That's the best head start I can give you. 
CHAKOTAY: Then it'll have to do. How long will it take to modify the deflector? 
KIM: I can do it right now. 
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to Paris. Is the rescue team ready? 
PARIS [OC]: Standing by. 
CHAKOTAY: Prepare for transport. 
KIM: Deflector ready, Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: Initiate the radion beams. 
KIM: Sending out the first volley. It's working. They're getting through the shields. 
CHAKOTAY: Begin the transport. 
KIM: Transporter room two, synchronise your confinement beams to (Boom!) That came from the surface. 
CHAKOTAY: Maximum shields. Damage report. 
KIM: Shields at ninety percent. It's a precision hit right to the source of the beams. Main deflector is now offline. We're being hailed from the surface. 
CHAKOTAY: On screen. 
AUGRIS [on viewscreen]: Your attempt to penetrate our defences is a hostile act against the Mokra Order. There are now eighty five phased ion cannons targeted at your ship. If you don't withdraw from Mokra space in two minutes, we will open fire. 
(Transmission ends. Down in the tunnels, Janeway avoids patrols and blows up a forcefield control panel. All the forcefields go down. Torres attacks their guard but it is Tuvok who disposes of him with a neck pinch and takes his weapon.) 
KIM: Commander. 
CHAKOTAY: Give me some good news, Mister Kim. 
KIM: There's a disruption in the shields around the prison. 
CHAKOTAY: That qualifies. Good work. 
KIM: Wish I could take credit for it, but it's coming from inside the prison. 
CHAKOTAY: Can we get through? 
KIM: Yes, but the Mokra will detect our transport. 
PARIS: Sounds like they have other things to worry about right now. That disruption might not be accidental. Someone might be trying to get out. 
CHAKOTAY: That's a big assumption. 
PARIS: Even if our people didn't cause the problem, you know they'd take advantage of it. This is our best chance to find them. 
CHAKOTAY: In about thirty seconds the Mokra are going to open fire. I don't know how long we're going to be able to wait for you. 
PARIS: Understood. 
[Prison complex]
(The prisoners are escaping very quietly.) 
JANEWAY: Darod. I'm looking for my people. 
DAROD: Back this way. I'll show you. 
(Further on, they hear footsteps.) 
JANEWAY: Don't move! 
CAYLEM: There you are. 
JANEWAY: What are you doing here? 
CAYLEM: I would do everything in my power to protect my only child. 
[Bridge]
KIM: There's a phased ion charge coming at us from the planet. 
CHAKOTAY: Full power to the shields. 
(Boom!) 
KIM: Shields at sixty percent. Minor damage on deck fourteen. They're firing again. 
CHAKOTAY: Modulate the shield frequencies. Try to throw off their sensors. 
KIM: No effect. Direct hit to the port nacelle. 
CHAKOTAY: Redirect all warp power to the shields. 
KIM: Two more coming in. 
[Prison complex]
TUVOK: Captain.
JANEWAY: We've got to get you back to the ship. You're hurt. 
CAYLEM: Ralkana, the other cells are this way. We must find your mother.
JANEWAY: Follow this passageway until it dead ends, then you'll see a smaller passageway. 
TORRES: Captain, what are you doing? 
JANEWAY: There's one more person I have to find. 
DAROD: Guards! 
AUGRIS: After all that time I spent looking for you, all I had to do was wait here. 
[Bridge]
KIM: Shields down to twenty three percent. 
CHAKOTAY: We've got to get out of their weapons range. Scan one more time for the away team. 
KIM: There's no sign of them. 
CHAKOTAY: Prepare to break orbit. 
KIM: Wait! Set a course bearing two one nine mark four seven. 
CHAKOTAY: Where are you taking us, Mister Kim? 
KIM: There's a large magnetic storm over the northern magnetic pole. It's giving our sensors some trouble, it should do same for theirs. 
CHAKOTAY: A blind spot? 
KIM: Exactly. If we maintain our position directly above the storm, their sensor net may not be able to keep an accurate lock on our position. 
CHAKOTAY: How long do you thing this'll work. 
KIM: The storm's already dissipating. A few more minutes? 
CHAKOTAY: I'll take every second I can get. 
[Prison complex]
AUGRIS: I must say I'm impressed, Caylem. You never made it this far before. Every so often he goes on one of his missions to rescue his wife. She's been dead for twelve years. 
CAYLEM: Lies! Lies! Lies! 
AUGRIS: Sometimes he gets all the way up to the front gate. We send him on his way and allow him to serve as a reminder of just how futile it is to challenge us. I thought you'd learnt that lesson when you lost your daughter. She made it as far as the tunnels before she was shot. 
CAYLEM: No. 
AUGRIS: So much tragedy for one man to bear. And now your foolishness has condemned another innocent woman. Take the others back for questioning. I'll interrogate this one myself. 
CAYLEM: No! I won't let you hurt her! 
(Caylem attacks Augris. The diversion lets the away team overpower the Mokra. More arrive but Tuvok holds them off. Augris finally throws off Caylem and the guards shoot him. Augris staggers back with the knife in his chest. The guards leave.) 
JANEWAY: Caylem! 
CAYLEM: Ralkana? He said you'd been shot. 
JANEWAY: He was lying to you, Father. I'm all right. 
CAYLEM: And your mother? 
JANEWAY: She's fine. She was so happy to get your letters. She wanted me to tell you something. She forgives you. We both do.
CAYLEM: My sweet girl. 
(Caylem dies. The rescue party arrive.) 
PARIS: Captain. 
JANEWAY: I'm coming. 
DAROD: No one will forget what he did here today. I'll make sure of that. 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Chakotay to transporter room two. Do we have them? 
JANEWAY [OC]: We're all back, Commander. Take us out of here. 
CHAKOTAY: Gladly. Lieutenant, you heard her. 
[Ready room]
KIM: The warp drive is functioning normally and we'll have the main deflector back online tomorrow. 
JANEWAY: Yes. Thank you, Mister Kim. 
KIM: Captain, are you all right? 
JANEWAY: I'm fine. 
(Kim leaves. Janeway picks up the necklace that Caylem gave her.) 

