Episode Number: 403
The Voyager Transcripts - Day of Honor
Day of Honor
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 17 September 1997
[Cargo Bay two]
SEVEN: Commander Chakotay. 
CHAKOTAY: I understand you wanted to see me. 
SEVEN: I'm told you are the officer in charge of personnel. That you prepare the duty assignments. Is that the correct phrase? 
CHAKOTAY: That's right. 
SEVEN: I am finding it difficult to spend so much time alone. I am unaccustomed to it. The hours do not pass quickly. 
CHAKOTAY: I can understand that. How can we help? 
SEVEN: I've been considering the matter carefully. I would like to request a duty assignment. 
CHAKOTAY: Did you have something specific in mind? 
SEVEN: Yes. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Now what!?
VORIK: There's been a rupture in the coolant injector. 
TORRES: I can see that. Why haven't you sealed it off? 
VORIK: I am attempting to do so. 
(The leak stops.)
TORRES: That's better. 
VORIK: Lieutenant, I have an idea. Perhaps it would be advisable to reconfigure the coolant assembly. That would give us greater control over the pressure valve emissions. 
TORRES: You're probably right. And tomorrow we can do it first thing. But not today. 
VORIK: I don't understand. Why wait until tomorrow? Today would be a much better 
TORRES: Not today, Vorik. 
PARIS: Good morning. Here's the helm control evaluation you wanted. 
TORRES: Thank you. 
PARIS: Are we still on for dinner tonight? 
TORRES: I may have to work. I'll let you know. 
PARIS: Ah ha. Okay. Have you decided if you're, if you're going through with it? 
TORRES: I have. And I'm not. Today hasn't started out very well, and the last thing I need is to get involved with some obscure Klingon ritual. 
PARIS: You were the one who suggested it. 
TORRES: I know. And for one sentimental minute I thought that I might actually go through with it. But not anymore. 
PARIS: Of course not. You wouldn't want to get too sentimental. 
TORRES: I overslept this morning because I forgot to tell the computer to wake me. And then the acoustic inverter in my sonic shower blew out. 
PARIS: That'll make your hair stand on end. 
TORRES: So I didn't have time for breakfast. And when I got here two people were out sick, so I had to cancel the fuel cell overhaul. And then an injector burst for no apparent reason and started spewing plasma coolant 
PARIS: That's a run of bad luck, all right. 
TORRES: So I am in a bad mood, and I know that I am being a little bit testy. 
PARIS: No, that's okay. Think about that dinner.
(Chakotay enters. Paris whispers to him on his way out.)
PARIS: ;Be careful. 
CHAKOTAY: Something interesting just happened. 
TORRES: What's that? 
CHAKOTAY: Seven of Nine requested a duty assignment. 
TORRES: Fascinating. 
CHAKOTAY: She wants to work in Engineering. 
TORRES: What? 
CHAKOTAY: The Borg use transwarp conduits to travel through space faster than warp speed. If we could create one of them. 
TORRES: We don't know anything about transwarp technology. Playing around with it could be dangerous. 
CHAKOTAY: That's where Seven of Nine comes in. She's offered to work with you. 
TORRES: What do you think her real motives are? 
CHAKOTAY: She's having a tough time making the transition from the Collective. She wants something to do. 
TORRES: I never thought of you as naive, Chakotay. The bottom line is, I don't want her working in Engineering. 
CHAKOTAY: The bottom line is, I'm giving you an order and you're going to follow it, Lieutenant. 
TORRES: Whatever you say, sir. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Seven of Nine, you told me you wouldn't make any more attempts to contact the Borg. I want to believe that's true. 
SEVEN: I assure you it is. 
JANEWAY: I've decided not to post a security detail while you're in Engineering, but you have to realise there are rules. You'll be expected to follow our protocols. You'll report directly to Lieutenant Torres and obey any order she gives you. 
SEVEN: I understand. 
JANEWAY: One more thing. Your designation, Seven of Nine, it's a little cumbersome. Wouldn't you prefer to be called by your given name, Annika? 
SEVEN: I have been Seven of Nine for as long as I can remember. 
JANEWAY: All right. But maybe we could streamline it a little. How would you feel about Seven? 
SEVEN: Imprecise, but acceptable. 
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to Captain Janeway. 
JANEWAY: Yes, Tuvok. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: Please come to the bridge. A ship is approaching. 
(Janeway enters, with Seven following.)
TUVOK: It's damaged but functional. Energy emissions are so low, it's probably not capable of warp speed. Several dozen lifesigns aboard. We are being hailed, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Open a channel. I'm Captain Kathryn Janeway of the Federation starship Voyager. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: I am Rahmin. My people are the Caatati. I apologise for our appearance and the condition of our ship. Most of our people were assimilated by the Borg over a year ago. We lost everything. 
JANEWAY: How many of you escaped? 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: A few thousand on thirty ships. All that's left from a planet of millions. 
JANEWAY: I'm sorry. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: Captain, I want to assure you, my people were once proud and accomplished. 
JANEWAY: I understand. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: It pains me to have to ask this, but I have eighty eight people to care for on this vessel. We need food, medicines. Is there any way you could help us? 
JANEWAY: Of course. Send us a list of your needs and we'll see what we can do. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: I'm deeply grateful. If it's not too much to ask, is there any way you might also spare a small quantity of thorium isotopes? Without them, our systems can't function. 
JANEWAY: I think we can arrange that. I'll speak to my engineer. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: You can't imagine what this means to us, Captain. Thank you. 
[Engineering]
(Seven is working at the warp core console.)
TORRES: How are those thorium isotopes coming, Vorik? 
VORIK: I'll admit I'm having trouble controlling the neutron absorption. 
TORRES: Try increasing the temperature of the plasma. Get the thorium to the captain as soon as it's ready. 
VORIK: Of course. 
TORRES: Tell me something. When you hear about people like the Caatati, do you have any feelings of remorse? 
SEVEN: No. 
TORRES: That's it? Just no? 
SEVEN: What further answer do you require? 
TORRES: Oh,;maybe some kind of acknowledgement of the billions of lives you helped destroy. A justification for what you did. Maybe a little sense of guilt? 
SEVEN: Guilt is irrelevant. 
TORRES: Heartwarming. 
SEVEN: I've set the parameters for the tachyon bursts we'll need to create a transwarp conduit. It will be several hours before the main deflector can be modified. I think it would be best if I waited in my alcove. 
TORRES: I think you're right. 
[Mess hall]
(Torres gives up playing with her food.)
NEELIX: If I ever saw a job for the morale officer, it's sitting right here. I'll bet I can help. 
TORRES: You're facing a big challenge, Neelix. 
NEELIX: I enjoy a challenge. 
(He produces a dish from behind his back.)
TORRES: Is that supposed to make me feel better? 
NEELIX: Blood pie, for the Day of Honour. 
TORRES: How did you know about that? Has Tom been talking to you? 
NEELIX: Not at all. No, I make it a point to know these things. And if I'm correct, many Klingon families traditionally serve blood pie on the Day of Honour. 
TORRES: I appreciate the gesture, Neelix, but I've decided to ignore this particular tradition. No blood pie, no examining my behaviour over the last year to see if I measure up to Klingon standards. 
NEELIX: Understood. Lieutenant, without knowing why there's a black cloud hanging over your head, may I suggest something? 
TORRES: Go right ahead. 
NEELIX: You have a bit of a temper that you keep reined in, and sometimes it builds up inside you until you explode at someone. 
TORRES: I'd say that about sums it up. 
NEELIX: I'm offering to be a pressure valve. 
TORRES: What? 
NEELIX: You may use me to blow off steam. When you're angry, come see me. Call me names, insult me, question my parentage. I won't take it personally. And you won't need to keep things bottled up inside anymore. 
TORRES: That may be the nicest offer I've had in a long time. Thank you, Neelix. You're sweet, but I'm not sure I could do that to you. 
NEELIX: I'm here if you need me. 
TORRES: Neelix. About this Day of Honour. Do you think I should go through with it? 
NEELIX: I've always thought traditions were good things, worth preserving. 
TORRES: I've been thinking a lot about the rituals that my mother taught me, and they don't seem quite so hateful as they did when I was a child. Maybe being so far away from anything Klingon has changed me. 
NEELIX: It certainly can't hurt to go through with the ceremony. 
TORRES: I don't know what effect it'll have on me. That's what's frightening. All right, bring on the blood pie. I can do this.
(She takes a spoonful. Her expression suggests eating it is an ordeal in itself.) 
[Holodeck]
(The usual dark cave lit by torches and fat candles.)
MOKLOR: Qapla'! What warrior goes there! 
TORRES: My name's B'Elanna. 
MOKLOR: Do you come to have your honour challenged? 
TORRES: I guess so. Yes. 
MOKLOR: Are you willing to see the ceremony through to the end? 
TORRES: That's the idea, isn't it? What do I do? 
MOKLOR: It will be a lengthy ordeal. First, you must eat from the heart of a sanctified targ. 
(Another Klingon brings a dish and Torres takes a piece.)
MOKLOR: Pak'logh! Yes, the heart of targ brings courage to one who eats it. Next, you will drink mot'lach from the Grail of Kahless. Drink to the glory of Kahless, the greatest warrior of all time! 
(Torres drinks, and coughs.)
MOKLOR: Kahless defeated his enemies on the field of battle and built a mighty empire. How have you proven yourself worthy? 
TORRES: I haven't built any empires, and I can't say that I've personally defeated any enemies in battle, but you have to realise I'm not living among warriors. 
MOKLOR: Then how do you expect to distinguish yourself? 
TORRES: I don't know. I guess I'm doing the best I can. 
MOKLOR: Huh. A pitiful reply. Let us proceed. A warrior must endure great hardship. To test your mettle you will endure the ritual of twenty pain-sticks. After that, you will engage in combat with a master of the bat'leth. Finally, you will traverse the sulphur lagoons of Gorath.
TORRES: You know, I don't think so. I didn't want to do this before you described it. Certainly not now. I'm leaving. 
MOKLOR: Not until you have completed the ceremony, p'tach. 
(They jab Torres with;pain sticks. She gasps and falls to her knees, then attacks Moklor.)
TORRES: Thanks so much. It's been lovely. 
[Torres' quarters]
TORRES: Come in. 
PARIS: I tried to find you before, but you were on the holodeck. 
TORRES: That's right. 
PARIS: You know, you left it running. There was a Klingon in there who didn't look too happy. 
TORRES: Really? 
PARIS: Yeah, and he was nursing a whale of a black eye. Looked like he'd had a run in with someone having a really bad day. 
TORRES: That's very funny. 
PARIS: So, how'd it go? 
TORRES: It didn't. Do you mind if we talk about something else? 
PARIS: As a matter of fact I do. You have been like a spitting cobra all day and it's getting boring. You know, we designed that holodeck programme together, and I think you owe me the courtesy of telling me what happened. 
TORRES: It was ridiculous, meaningless posturing. Honour, dishonour, what does it matter? 
PARIS: It matters because it's part of who you are. You've been running away from that your whole life. 
TORRES: Who are you to tell me that? 
PARIS: I care about you, but if you're going to keep pushing me away then there's no point in my staying around, is there? 
TORRES: Fine! Just leave me alone. 
PARIS: Don't worry. If this is the way you treat people who try to be your friend, you'll be alone all right. 
[Briefing room]
RAHMIN: There are over two hundred people on our three ships alone. Everyone of them suffers from malnourishment, but it's been hardest on the children. Every parent sacrifices for their child, but even so, there's not enough food. If you could hear the crying of the babies, you would have as much trouble sleeping at night as I do. 
TUVOK: Have you considered relocation to a planet where you could grow your own food? 
RAHMIN: Of course, but we haven't been welcomed anywhere. Because we have no resources everyone treats us like vagrants, even criminals. 
CHAKOTAY: We're not unsympathetic, but we have limited supplies. We can't possibly provide enough for all your people. 
RAHMIN: Forgive me but, from my perspective you live in luxury. You don't suffer from debilitating diseases. You have many sources of energy. Replicators. Your crew is very well fed. Apparently, keeping your bellies full is more important to you than helping those less fortunate. 
NEELIX: That's unfair. These are the most generous people you could hope to meet. But if we gave supplies to everyone who asked, we wouldn't have anything left. 
JANEWAY: Neelix, how much food can we spare? 
NEELIX: We could provide each ship with several hundred kilograms. 
JANEWAY: Do it, and check with the Doctor to see if he can spare any medical supplies. 
NEELIX: Aye, Captain. 
RAHMIN: Thank you. May the gods smile on you and your crew. 
JANEWAY: Tuvok, please escort our guest to the transporter room. 
[Corridor]
PARIS: I've never navigated a transwarp conduit. Any problems I should be aware of? 
SEVEN: You have no idea what you are doing. If we attempt to enter one, I'll have to take helm control. 
PARIS: I am a quick study. 
RAHMIN: What species is that? 
TUVOK: She is a human who lived as a Borg. 
RAHMIN: Borg! 
TUVOK: She is disconnected from the Collective. She won't harm you. 
RAHMIN: Where's my wife? Where are my children? What did you do with them after you took them? What did you do with my family? 
TUVOK: Mister Paris, please proceed. 
(Tuvok leads Rahmin one way, Paris and Seven go the other.)
RAHMIN: I lost everything. My family, my home. 
PARIS: Sorry about that. 
SEVEN: About what? 
PARIS: Well, the way he reacted to you. 
SEVEN: He didn't injure me. 
PARIS: Good. 
SEVEN: There are many people on this ship who have similar feelings towards me. 
PARIS: I'm afraid you're right. Does that bother you? 
SEVEN: No. 
PARIS: Well, I'm not one of those people. We all have a past. What matters is now. 
SEVEN: I'm uncertain what you're trying to say. 
PARIS: That if there's any way I can help you adjust to your life here on Voyager, please ask me. 
SEVEN: I will remember your offer. 
[Engineering]
SEVEN: All systems are ready. 
TORRES: We're only going to take a peek. We open a conduit, get as much sensor data as we can, then close it up. I want to take this one step at a time. 
VORIK: I've set up a temporary tachyon matrix within the main deflector. It's online. 
TORRES: Engineering to the bridge. 
[Bridge]
TORRES [OC]: We're ready to start, Captain. 
JANEWAY: Go ahead. We'll monitor your progress from here. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: We'll need to be at warp speed to create a large enough subspace field. I'd like to reroute helm control to Engineering. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Agreed. Janeway out. 
TORRES: Take us past 
PARIS: Past warp two. I know. We're at warp two point three. 
TORRES: All right. Vorik, start emitting the tachyons. 
VORIK: Energising the matrix. 
SEVEN: There's no indication of a subspace field. I recommend switching to a higher energy band. 
PARIS: That did something. 
SEVEN: The subspace field is forming. 
TORRES: Tachyon particles are leaking into the propulsion system. 
PARIS: Shut down the deflector. 
VORIK: Done. But the leak is continuing. 
(A console explodes.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Janeway to Engineering. 
TORRES: The tachyons are flooding the warp core, Captain. 
[Bridge]
JANEWAY: If you can't stabilise the core immediately, evacuate Engineering. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Aye, Captain. I'll get back to you. 
VORIK: I've cut all power relays, but the tachyon levels are still rising. 
TORRES: All right, everybody out! Now! That means you as well. 
SEVEN: I could be of help. 
TORRES: That's an order. 
PARIS: You can't order me, I outrank you. 
TORRES: We've got to neutralise the core. 
PARIS: I'll try decoupling the dilithium matrix. 
TORRES: No effect. Try it again. 
PARIS: It's not working. The core is about to breach! 
TORRES: I've got to try one more thing. 
PARIS: B'Elanna, there's no more time. We've got to get out of here. Come on. 
TORRES: Computer, prepare to eject the warp core. Authorisation Torres omega phi nine three 
[Corridor]
TORRES: Computer, eject the warp core. Torres to Janeway. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Go ahead. 
TORRES: We've dumped the core. Welcome to the worst day of my life. 
[Engineering]
TORRES: Vorik, we have to get those impulse engines back online. You and Nicoletti get started. 
VORIK: Yes, Lieutenant. 
JANEWAY: Report. 
TORRES: We're stopped dead. The warp core is millions of kilometres away by now, and the impulse engines are seriously damaged. I can give you a few thrusters, but that's about it. 
JANEWAY: How long before I can have impulse power? 
TORRES: I can't give you an estimate on that. We're still assessing the damage. So much for opening a transwarp conduit. I sent the Borg back to her alcove. We won't be needing her in here any more. 
JANEWAY: At least the core's still intact. Tom, take a shuttle and find it. See if you can tractor it back to Voyager. 
PARIS: Yes ma'am. 
TORRES: It'll be unstable. It should be repaired before he tries to put a tractor beam on it. 
JANEWAY: Well then, you go with him. Do whatever you have to. Just get it back here in one piece. 
[Shuttlecraft Cochrane]
TORRES: We're getting near some random ion turbulence. 
PARIS: I'll change course to avoid it. 
TORRES: I wonder what else can go wrong today. If we get this core back, I'm going right to bed and sleeping straight through till tomorrow. Get this day over with. 
PARIS: Well, look at it this way, how much worse could it get? Having to dump the warp core has to be the low point of any day. 
TORRES: Maybe it's me. Maybe I'm asking for this trouble somehow. 
PARIS: Or maybe it's just a streak of bad luck? Sensors have picked up a polymetallic object. Could be the core. 
TORRES: That's the warp signature all right. There's something else out there. A ship. According to sensors it has the same energy signature as the Caatati ships. 
PARIS: Maybe they're guarding it for us. 
TORRES: Right. 
PARIS: I see it. What do they think they're doing? 
TORRES: They're trying to put a tractor beam on it. 
PARIS: This is the Shuttle Cochrane to the Caatati vessel. Please respond. 
RAHMIN [OC]: Don't come any closer. We're performing a salvage operation. 
PARIS: Oh, what a coincidence. So are we. 
RAHMIN [OC]: I'm afraid we got here first. Don't interfere or we'll open fire. 
TORRES: Don't you realise that core is highly unstable? If you try to tractor it like that you could cause an antimatter explosion. 
PARIS: They're not answering. 
TORRES: Idiots! 
PARIS: We have to stop them from destroying the core. 
TORRES: I'm going to try and disrupt their tractor beam. 
PARIS: It's working. 
(Whumph.)
PARIS: What was that? 
TORRES: They sent an antimatter pulse back through our particle beam. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Structural integrity field has been compromised. Now at fifty three percent and falling. Hull breach in two minutes twenty seconds. 
TORRES: Reroute power from the propulsion and weapons systems. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach in two minutes ten seconds. 
PARIS: No effect. 
COMPUTER: Warning. The structural integrity field has collapsed. Hull breach in two minutes. 
PARIS: We have to get out of here. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Hull breach in one minute fifty seconds. 
(Torres and Paris break out the environmental suits. The Caatati fly away with the warp core.)
PARIS: Computer, send a distress call to Voyager. Give them our coordinates. Computer, respond.
TORRES: The comm. systems must be down. 
PARIS: Transporters are still online. Stand by to energise. Energise. 
[Space]
(They watch the Cochrane go KaBOOM! from a safe distance.)
PARIS: Paris to Voyager. Do you read me? Please respond. Paris to Voyager. 
TORRES: It's no use. The comm. system in these suits won't carry that far. 
PARIS: When they get the impulse engines repaired they'll come looking for us. 
TORRES: Well, I don't plan on just drifting here hoping someone will just come along and rescue us. There must be something we can do. 
PARIS: Agreed. If we could interplex the comm. systems in both suits we might be able to create a phased carrier wave. Voyager would read the signature and know it's from us. 
TORRES: Good idea. Let me access your controls. 
PARIS: I thought you'd never ask. 
(He pulls on her lifeline to bring her close in.)
TORRES: That's it. This would be a lot easier if I had a hyperspanner. Hold still. 
PARIS: Why is it we have to get beamed into space in environmental suits before I can initiate first contact procedures? 
TORRES: Why is it that if we're alone for more than thirty seconds you start thinking about contact? 
PARIS: Ah, that is not fair. The other day in Engineering I must have gone four minutes before I started thinking about it. 
TORRES: Okay, I'm ready to initiate the carrier wave. 
(A high pitched buzzing that hurts the ears.)
PARIS: Ah! Ah! 
TORRES: Sorry. Better? 
PARIS: Yeah. Let's hope it's still that strong by the time it gets to Voyager. 
[Ready room]
JANEWAY: Come in. Would you like tea or coffee? 
SEVEN: I have no need to ingest liquids. I still receive energy from the Borg alcove. 
JANEWAY: My understanding is that you're almost ready to begin eating food. 
SEVEN: That is what the doctor says. Why have you asked me here? 
JANEWAY: Whenever there's an accident on the ship, even a minor one, we investigate it;in order to minimise the chances of its happening again. 
SEVEN: A prudent course of action. 
JANEWAY: I didn't have a chance to talk to Lieutenant Torres before she left the ship, so I wanted to ask you some questions about what happened in Engineering. Sensor logs indicate the tachyons were leaking into the warp core. Do you have any idea how it started? 
SEVEN: No. We had reconfigured the deflector shield to emit tachyon bursts. The procedure must have triggered the leak. 
JANEWAY: Who was controlling the tachyon bursts? 
SEVEN: Ensign Vorik. 
JANEWAY: What were you doing? 
SEVEN: Monitoring the transwarp frequencies. 
JANEWAY: And did you at any time access deflector control? 
SEVEN: You believe I'm responsible for the accident. That I deliberately sabotaged the ship. You are like the others, you see me as a threat. 
JANEWAY: I won't lie to you. Part of me is suspicious. We've dealt with tachyon fields before and never had this kind of problem. 
SEVEN: Captain. I am unaccustomed to deception. Among the Borg it was impossible. There were no lies, no secrets. And I assure you I had nothing to do with the accident in Engineering. 
JANEWAY: I believe you. Thank you. 
SEVEN: I am finding it a difficult challenge to integrate into this group. It is full of complex social structures that are unfamiliar to me. Compared with the Borg, this crew is inefficient and contentious, but it is capable of surprising acts of compassion. 
JANEWAY: Unexpected acts of kindness are common among our group. That's one of the ways we define ourselves. 
SEVEN: Is there anything more? 
JANEWAY: Yes. We still have to find out what caused the tachyon leak. Tell me what you remember about the power fluctuations in the propulsion system. 
[Space]
TORRES: This isn't anything like the simulations we had at the Academy. They felt peaceful, like floating in the womb. But right now I'm feeling a little sick to my stomach. 
PARIS: You dropped out too soon. In the third year there's a six week course of actual spacewalks so you can get used to them. 
TORRES: I never would have lasted to the third year. If I hadn't dropped out, they would have asked me to leave. 
PARIS: I wish I'd known you then. 
TORRES: You'd have hated me. 
PARIS: I can't imagine a time I wouldn't have found you fascinating. 
(A bright light happens nearby.)
PARIS: What the hell was that? 
TORRES: More ion turbulence. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at one hundred fourteen millibars. 
PARIS: My oxygen supply is leaking. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at ninety three millibars. 
TORRES: We'll have to share mine. 
(She plugs into his chest unit.)
TORRES: Are you getting air now? 
PARIS: Yes. Much better. Thanks. What's wrong? 
TORRES: The turbulence must have damaged my suit too. I should have at least twenty four hours worth of oxygen, but there's only about a half hour left. 
[Ready room]
VORIK [OC]: Engineering to Captain Janeway. 
JANEWAY: Yes, Ensign. 
[Engineering]
VORIK: I'm pleased to inform you that impulse power should be restored 
[Ready Room]
VORIK [OC]: 
Within the hour.
JANEWAY: Good news. Let me know the minute the engines are online. 
VORIK [OC]: Yes, ma'am. 
SEVEN: Captain, I believe I've found the cause of the accident. Erratic fluctuations in the ship's warp power. When tachyon levels rose to a resonant frequency, core pressure increased. 
JANEWAY: Then it was an accident. Come in. 
CHAKOTAY: Captain, we've picked up a carrier wave with a Starfleet signature. I'd guess it's Tom and B'Elanna, but they're not answering our hails. 
JANEWAY: They may be in trouble. As soon as we get impulse power 
TUVOK [OC]: Tuvok to the captain. Can you come to the bridge? 
JANEWAY: On my way. 
[Bridge]
TUVOK: We're being approached by an armada of Caatati ships. 
KIM: They're hailing us. 
JANEWAY: On screen. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: Hello, Captain. 
JANEWAY: You've brought some friends. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: Needy friends. We're hoping you will offer us more supplies. 
JANEWAY: I made it clear last time that we couldn't possibly you with enough for all your ships. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: And I had to accept that because your ship is more powerful than ours. But the situation has changed, hasn't it? You seem to be at a disadvantage now. We have your warp core. You can't escape. I'm hoping that'll make you more generous. 
JANEWAY: We've given you everything we can spare. Return the core and we'll be on our way. 
RAHMIN [on viewscreen]: One of our ships might not seem threatening to you, but I assure you, twenty seven can inflict considerable damage. We are desperate. Prepare to send us food, weapons, and your entire supply of thorium. And that Borg you're protecting. We want her too. There are many who'd enjoy a chance to repay one of them for what they did to us. 
[Space]
PARIS: I'm lowering the oxygen ratio. That should give us a few more minutes. 
TORRES: I'm feeling kind of groggy. 
PARIS: Oxygen deprivation. 
TORRES: And you're lowering it? 
PARIS: We have to try to make it last as long as possible. 
TORRES: It's ironic, isn't it. 
PARIS: What? 
TORRES: Today, the Day of Honour, is the day that I'm going to die. 
PARIS: We are not going to die. Would you stop talking like that? 
TORRES: We have to face up to it, Tom. 
PARIS: There's something I've been wanting to ask you. 
TORRES: Well, now's the time. 
PARIS: When we first met, you didn't have a very high opinion of me. 
TORRES: That's putting it mildly. I thought you were an arrogant, self- absorbed pig. 
PARIS: Flattery won't get you any more oxygen. Do you think I've changed? 
TORRES: A lot. Now you're a stubborn domineering pig. I'm just kidding. There I go again, just pushing you away. You were right about me. It's what I do, push people away. 
PARIS: Well, it's a sure fire way of not getting hurt. 
TORRES: What a coward I am. 
PARIS: Shush.
(He holds her in his arms.) 
[Bridge]
CHAKOTAY: Our weapons are more powerful than theirs. I say we fight. 
KIM: Maybe if we give them something? 
JANEWAY: Like what? I can't imagine what would satisfy them now. 
SEVEN: I will go. They asked for me. If I surrender myself perhaps they'll let you leave. 
JANEWAY: That's very generous, but I will not turn you over to them. 
SEVEN: I was only offering to do what would be best for this group. 
JANEWAY: You're part of this group now and we're going to protect you. It's time to stop talking about this. Tom and B'Elanna are in trouble and we have to find them. Tuvok, what's the status of our weapons array? 
TUVOK: Weapons are at the ready, Captain, but our shield strength is extremely low. 
JANEWAY: We'll have to shut down non-essential systems. Reroute power to the shields. We're going to fight. 
SEVEN: That might not be necessary. Caatati technology is dependent on thorium isotopes. If they had enough they could become self-sustaining. 
KIM: But we don't have that much thorium to give them. 
SEVEN: When the Borg assimilated the Caatati, the survivors lost their ability to replicate the isotopes. But I have retained that knowledge. I could design an energy matrix that would produce thorium in large quantities. 
CHAKOTAY: If you've had this knowledge all along, why didn't you say so? 
SEVEN: I am not accustomed to thinking that way. Borg do not consider giving technology away, only assimilating it. 
JANEWAY: And what do you suppose made you consider it now? 
SEVEN: I am not certain. 
JANEWAY: Maybe it was just an unexpected act of kindness. Work with Vorik to build the energy matrix, while I convince the Caatati there's a better way out of this. 
[Science laboratory]
SEVEN: This matrix will produce nine hundred forty four grammes of thorium per day. 
JANEWAY: Now you can power all your systems and begin to rebuild your replication technology. Will you allow us to leave? 
RAHMIN: One device isn't enough for all our ships. 
SEVEN: Using this matrix as a template you can construct as many as you like. We can provide you with components and specifications. 
RAHMIN: You are free to go. And thank you. 
SEVEN: You're welcome. 
[Space]
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at one hundred four millibars. 
TORRES: Tom. Come on. Open your eyes. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at eighty seven millibars. 
PARIS: I was having a dream. 
TORRES: There's something I have to say. 
PARIS: Me too. I'm glad the last thing I'll see is you. 
TORRES: I've been a coward about everything. Everything that really matters. 
PARIS: Now you're being a little hard on yourself. 
TORRES: No. I'm going to die without a shred of honour. And for the first time in my life that really bothers me. So I have to tell you something. I 
COMPUTER: Warning. Oxygen level at seventy one millibars. 
TORRES: I have to tell you the truth. 
PARIS: The truth about what? 
TORRES: I love you. Say something. 
PARIS: You picked a great time to tell me. 
(The sleek shape of an approaching Federation starship is reflected in Torres' helmet.)
JANEWAY [OC]: Voyager to Tom Paris. Tom, do you read me? Respond. 
PARIS: We're here. 
JANEWAY [OC]: Prepare to beam aboard. 

