Episode Number: 515
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - A Simple Investigation
A Simple Investigation
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 31 Mar, 1997
[Guest quarters]
TAUVID: Computer, time. 
COMPUTER: Eighteen twenty one hours. 
(The doorbell rings. He takes a pen-like thing out of a satchel and slips it up his sleeve, then opens the door.) 
TAUVID: Can I help you? 
TRAIDY: I think so. 
(The tall, thin alien pushes Tauvid back into the room.) 
TAUVID: What are you doing? 
(Sorm, his shorter companion, punches Torvid in the abdomen.) 
TRAIDY: Where is it? 
TAUVID: Where is what? I don't even know what you're looking for. 
TRAIDY: Yes, you do. (to Sorm) Well? 
SORM: (scanning) It's not here. 
TRAIDY: That's not good. Is it possible we have the wrong man? 
SORM: It's starting to look that way. 
TRAIDY: This is very embarrassing. Now listen to me. We know why you're here, we know who you came to meet, and we know what you were going to give her. So for the last time, where is it? 
TAUVID: All right, I'll take you to it. 
TRAIDY: You see? It was him all along. 
(Tauvid pulls his weapon but Sorm vapourises him) 
SORM: I thought it was on stun. 
TRAIDY: Look what you did to the carpet. 
(Scorch marks where Tauvid was kneeling when he died.) 
SORM: What do we do now? We don't have time to search the whole station. 
TRAIDY: We wait for the woman. She might know where he hid it 
[Quark's - upper level]
ODO: You wanted to see us? 
(Bashir presents an isolinear rod) 
DAX: Is that the new holosuite programme? 
BASHIR: Queen's Gambit. It came in this morning. 
O'BRIEN: Finally. That friend of yours promised to send it two months ago. 
BASHIR: According to Felix, it's worth the wait. He said it's the most elaborate programme he's ever designed. 
DAX: What parts do we get to play? 
BASHIR: You get to play Lady Wantsomore, a beautiful socialite who's brainwashed to assassinate the Queen of England. 
DAX: Ooo, somebody stop me. 
O'BRIEN: What about me? 
BASHIR: Odo plays Nigel Dunlop, a former agent who comes out of retirement to help me foil this diabolical plot. 
DAX: Perfect. 
BASHIR: I play 
O'BRIEN: Julian, we know who you play. What about me? 
BASHIR: You're Falcon, of course. 
O'BRIEN: Falcon? Again? I'm tired of being the bad guy. 
DAX: But you do it so well. 
BASHIR: So, is everybody all right for Saturday? 
DAX: Fine. 
O'BRIEN: No problem. 
BASHIR: Odo? 
ODO: What do you want me to do again? 
DAX: Save the Queen. 
BASHIR: Not only that, you get to drive around in fancy automobiles, and go to posh parties and steal her (picture on PADD) away from Falcon. 
O'BRIEN: He steals my girl? 
ODO: Er, maybe you'd better get another Nigel Dunlop. 
BASHIR: Are you kidding? Look at her. 
ODO: I'm, I'm busy on Saturday. 
DAX: We'll do it when you're not busy. 
ODO: I don't think so. I'm sorry. I never should have agreed to be a part of this in the first place. Sorry. 
(Odo heads downstairs) 
BASHIR: Well, looks like we'll have to find someone else to play Odo's part. 
(O'Brien takes another look at the lissome blonde character in holosuite programme 5547.) 
O'BRIEN: I'll do it. 
[Quark's]
(Quark's got a Bolian bar assistant.) 
ARISSA: I've already told you, I don't want to play dabo, I don't want a holosuite, and I don't want anything to eat. 
QUARK: Can I interest you in my collection of Risean tapestries? 
ODO: Why don't you leave her alone, Quark. Can't you see she's not interested? 
QUARK: How do I know she's not interested unless I ask? 
ARISSA: Maybe you should spend less time bothering your customers, and more time keeping an eye on your business. 
QUARK: Don't worry, I can keep my eyes on more than one thing at a time. 
ARISSA: Really? What about him? 
(An alien up the upper level is fiddling with a ring) 
ARISSA: He's got a graviton emitter hidden in his ring. He's manipulating the table for his friend over there. 
CROWD: Dabo! 
(Quark dashes away.) 
ODO: You're very observant. 
ARISSA: Thanks. 
ODO: Are you waiting for someone? 
ARISSA: You. Where have you been all my life? 
ODO: Pardon me? 
ARISSA: Isn't that what you were hoping I'd say? 
ODO: It's just that you keep glancing at the door. 
ARISSA: I'm waiting for someone. 
ODO: That's all I meant. 
ARISSA: Sorry. I thought you had other things on your mind. Must be those bedroom eyes of yours. 
ODO: Bedroom eyes? 
ARISSA: You probably get that all the time. 
ODO: Not really. If anyone bothers you again, let me know. I'm Security Chief Odo. My office is just across the Promenade. 
ARISSA: I'll be all right. 
ODO: Well, I have to go. To work. In my office. 
ARISSA: Across the Promenade. 
ODO: Exactly. 
(Odo nearly walks into the wall. He leaves and we see the assassins sitting at a nearby table.) 
[Cargo bay]
KIRA: Look at this. I was checking the contents of one of those crates. A tentacle grabbed my hand. 
ODO: Gagh. The Klingons have been getting regular shipments of it since the day they were posted here. 
KIRA: I can't believe they eat that stuff. 
(Odo is looking at his reflection in the side of a crate.) 
KIRA: What are you doing? 
ODO: Nothing. 
KIRA: What are you looking at? 
ODO: Well, I'm. Actually I'm. I'm never mind. 
KIRA: What? 
ODO: It's embarrassing. 
KIRA: Would you just tell me. 
ODO: Last night, a woman in Quark's told me I have bedroom eyes. I'm trying to see if it's true. 
KIRA: Tell me about this woman. 
ODO: She thought I was trying to seduce her. It was all just a misunderstanding. 
KIRA: If you say so. You going to see her again? 
ODO: I have no idea. Why? 
KIRA: Obviously she's very perceptive. 
ODO: Meaning what? 
KIRA: Meaning you should see her again. 
[Security office]
ARISSA: Hello again. 
ODO: What's this all about? 
(The deputy hands over a PADD and leaves.) 
ODO: You tried to break into the station computer. Why? 
ARISSA: My friend never showed up last night. I wanted to check the passenger manifests to find out if he came aboard. 
ODO: Why didn't you come to me? I could have checked the manifests for you. 
ARISSA: When you grow up on Finnea Prime, you learn not to trust policemen. 
ODO: Dataport bothering you? 
(It's just behind her left ear.) 
ARISSA: The security protocols protecting your computer generated some nasty feedback. 
ODO: I know. I designed them that way. 
ARISSA: Nice job. I couldn't stay interfaced long enough to break past the encryption lockouts. 
ODO: That was the idea. Tell me, Arissa, what's a nice woman like you doing with a dataport? 
ARISSA: They're not illegal. 
ODO: They ought to be. People tend to use them to access information other people don't want them to access. 
ARISSA: I've heard that. 
ODO: This Idanian you were waiting for in Quark's, Tauvid Rem. What were you meeting him about? 
ARISSA: A personal matter. 
ODO: Well, I suppose I could just go to his quarters and ask him. 
ARISSA: I'd rather you didn't. It's a delicate situation. 
ODO: I'm listening. 
ARISSA: Tauvid's well known for finding people. People who don't necessarily want to be found. He's helping me locate my daughter. I gave her up when she was born fifteen years ago. 
ODO: I see. 
ARISSA: He told me he had information about her. That's all I know. I've been looking for her a long time. Please, let me talk to him. 
ODO: All right. I'll take you to him. We'll sort the rest out later. 
ARISSA: Thank you. 
[Corridor]
(No answer to the doorbell.) 
ARISSA: Maybe he's not in. 
ODO: According to the access log, he's inside. 
(Odo opens the door) 
[Guest quarters]
ODO: It's Security. Hello? 
(Arissa checks the bedroom. Odo spots a dent in the carpet, moves the chair and finds the burn marks) 
ARISSA: He's not here. 
ODO: Oh, yes he is. What's left of him. 
[Security office]
ODO: The residue we found contains Idanian DNA. I think it's safe to assume it came from Tauvid Rem. Do you have any idea why someone would want to kill him? 
ARISSA: No, but considering what he does for a living, he probably had dealings with all sorts of marginal characters. Maybe it was a robbery. 
ODO: What makes you say that? 
ARISSA: I didn't see any personal belongings in his quarters. Did your deputies find anything? 
ODO: No. 
ARISSA: Well, whatever happened, I doubt it had anything to do with me or my daughter. 
ODO: That depends. It's possible that someone doesn't want you to find your daughter. 
ARISSA: Tauvid didn't give me any indication of that when we spoke. 
ODO: When was that? 
ARISSA: About three days ago. I can't believe this. I was so close to finding her and now I'm going to have to start all over again. That's if you'll let me. 
ODO: If? 
ARISSA: In case you'd forgotten, I'm facing charges for trying to break into your computer. 
ODO: Considering you weren't able to access any secured information, I've decided to drop those charges. 
ARISSA: I appreciate that very much. 
ODO: You're free to go. 
ARISSA: Thank you. You're a very kind man. 
ODO: I hope you find your daughter. 
[Corridor]
(Arissa plugs herself into a panel and accesses the Assay office records for Tauvid Rem.) 
[Promenade]
(Quark is closing up the bar when there's a knock from inside.) 
QUARK: Morn! We're closed. 
(Morn comes out of the bar.) 
QUARK: Go home. 
(We follow Morn along then pick up Arissa coming out of somewhere.) 
ODO: I'm afraid the Assay Office is closed for the evening. If you want to secure any valuables, you'll have to come back in the morning. 
ARISSA: Thanks, I'll do that. I didn't realise I tripped an alarm. 
ODO: You didn't. You're good. 
ARISSA: I still got caught. 
ODO: I've been following you. 
ARISSA: I didn't know. 
ODO: I'm good, too. So, did you find anything in Tauvid's locker? 
ARISSA: Would you believe me if I said no? 
ODO: Actually, I'd have you strip-searched. 
ARISSA: That might be fun, but in the interest of saving time. 
(She holds out a data crystal.) 
[Security office]
ODO: I've never seen a data crystal quite like this. It looks like it has a phase inverter embedded inside it. It's not going to be easy to decode. Given that all it contains is information about a missing girl, Tauvid went to great lengths to secure it. 
ARISSA: You know how Idanians are. They're a secretive race. 
ODO: You realise it would be a simple matter for me to have a Doctor examine you to determine if you've ever been pregnant. 
ARISSA: You keep threatening to have me stripped down and examined. I'm trying not to read too much into that. 
ODO: You don't have a daughter, do you? 
ARISSA: No. 
ODO: That's probably the first true statement I've heard you make. 
ARISSA: Not quite. I meant what I said about your eyes. 
ODO: What's on the crystal? 
ARISSA: I don't know, but I need to find out. 
ODO: Why? 
ARISSA: Because if I don't, I'm dead. 
ODO: Maybe you'd better start at the beginning. 
ARISSA: I work for a man named Draim. I see you've heard of him. 
ODO: He's with the Orion Syndicate. If I'm not mistaken, he specialises in blackmail and extortion. Where do you fit in with his organisation? 
ARISSA: I access computer systems and steal information for him, government data, business plans, whatever he asks for. 
ODO: I hope you're well paid. It's a dangerous line of work. Trigger the wrong security protocol, you could end up with permanent brain damage. 
ARISSA: I think about that from time to time, but there's not much I can do about it. You don't quit the Orion Syndicate unless they say you can. 
ODO: Do you want to quit? 
ARISSA: That's why I came to meet Tauvid. 
ODO: Who was he? 
ARISSA: I don't know. 
ODO: Then why did you come meet him? 
ARISSA: He told me he had information. Information I could use to break away from Draim, free and clear. 
ODO: What made you believe that he was telling the truth? 
ARISSA: I don't know. I just did. I'm not even sure how he knew I wanted to get out. 
ODO: Did he tell you what this information was? 
ARISSA: No. But for some reason I decided to trust him. I know this sounds insane. I guess I was desperate. 
ODO: Did you tell anyone you were coming here? 
ARISSA: No, but Draim must have monitored my communications. How else could he have gotten his people here before I arrived. 
ODO: So you think Draim had Tauvid killed to stop you from getting this crystal? 
ARISSA: And whoever he hired is probably still on the station. You can be sure that Draim wants to know what's on that crystal as much as I do. 
ODO: What are you smiling about? 
ARISSA: Oh, I'm just picturing myself trying to explain all this to the authorities back on Finnea. Not that they'll listen. They'll just send me to prison. 
ODO: I'm not turning this over to the Finneans. 
ARISSA: You're not? 
ODO: I'm placing you in protective custody while I have someone try to access the crystal. In the meantime, I want you to have a look at security recordings made at the airlocks. Draim was probably careful not to send anyone you'd recognise, but you never know. 
ARISSA: Why are you doing this? 
ODO: Doing what? 
ARISSA: Helping me. 
ODO: Why not? 
ARISSA: You mean you're just doing it out of the kindness of your heart? 
ODO: I don't have a heart. 
ARISSA: You could've fooled me. 
[Cargo bay]
(Traidy brings in takeaway food.) 
SORM: What'd you get? 
TRAIDY: It's called hasperat. 
SORM: Where is she? 
TRAIDY: She's with that changeling security chief. 
SORM: Spicy. 
TRAIDY: They have the crystal. We've got to make sure she doesn't access it. 
SORM: She's so pretty. I was hoping we wouldn't have to kill her. 
TRAIDY: You'll get over it. 
[Guest quarters]
ARISSA: Nice room. 
ODO: Don't get too used to it. You're not staying here. Odo to Security, begin transport. 
[Odo's quarters]
(Odo and Arissa beam in) 
ODO: There. Now, if anyone was watching, they'll think you're still in the other quarters. 
ARISSA: Good trick. I hope it works. Interesting furniture. 
ODO: I use these things to practise shape-shifting. 
ARISSA: These are your quarters? 
ODO: I thought this would be the last place anyone would look for you. There's a bed in the other room. I was planning to stay out here so I could keep an eye on you, if that's all right. 
ARISSA: I could use the company. 
ODO: I have two deputies stationed outside in the corridor, posing as a maintenance crew doing repairs. 
ARISSA: And where are you going to sleep? 
ODO: I don't need a bed. I regenerate by reverting to a gelatinous state. 
ARISSA: Sounds relaxing. 
ODO: It is, actually. 
ARISSA: I'm so tired I wouldn't mind being in a gelatinous state myself. 
ODO: I understand you haven't been able to identify anyone from the security recordings. 
ARISSA: No. 
ODO: I haven't had much luck identifying Tauvid either. It's not his real name. He took three different transports to get to the station, used a different identity each time. I've transmitted a picture of him to the Idanian authorities. I'm not sure we'll get a reply. As you said before, they're a very secretive race. 
ARISSA: What about the crystal? 
ODO: Dax and Chief O'Brien are still trying to get past the encryption lockouts. 
ARISSA: I could try to interface with it. 
ODO: That's not a good idea. The first time they attempted to access it, the feedback shorted out the computer. I'd hate to see what that would do to your dataport. 
ARISSA: I can't believe what I got myself into. Walking out on Draim to meet someone I don't even know? I must have been out of my mind. 
ODO: You said you were desperate. 
ARISSA: Why do you think I got involved with Draim in the first place? 
ODO: I know life on Finnea isn't easy, but you must have had other options. 
ARISSA: Have you ever been there? 
ODO: No. 
ARISSA: It's not like a Federation world where everything is handed to you. You know how I ended up with this? I was a netgirl. I told myself I wasn't selling my body since there was no actual contact. But I was. I let men into my mind for money. Draim was one of them. That's how we first met. Before I knew it, I was working for him. He paid me more than I'd ever seen before. I was so far removed from the consequences of what I was doing, it was easy to pretend that I wasn't hurting anyone. I'd hear things now and then. Some businessman Draim had me investigate would disappear. I tried to convince myself it had nothing to do with me. But after while I couldn't pretend anymore. I wanted out. I guess I'm finally going to get my wish. Only problem is, I'll be dead. I don't want to cry. The dead don't cry. 
ODO: Arissa, look at me. I'm not going to let anyone hurt you. You have to trust me. 
ARISSA: I do trust you. But you can't protect me forever. Sooner or later, Draim will get to me. I've got to find out what's on that crystal. 
ODO: I don't think you can count on whatever's on that crystal to get you out of this. 
ARISSA: If that's true, then I don't have a chance. 
ODO: Yes, you do. If you testified against Draim, you could put him in prison for the rest of his life. You could get immunity for any past crimes you may have committed, start a new life. 
ARISSA: Testify against Draim? I would never make it to the witness stand. 
ODO: I will take personal responsibility for your safety. I don't care how long it takes. If I have to ask for a leave of absence, I will. 
ARISSA: You'd do that for me? Why? 
ODO: I've done things in my life I'm not proud of, too. You worked for Draim, I worked for the Cardassians. I never had the courage to walk away. You did. I admire that. 
ARISSA: Wait a minute. You're going to have to give me a minute to get used to this. I've never been admired for anything other than the way I look. 
ODO: Most people can't see past the surface, especially when what they see is so beautiful. I'm, I'm sorry, I merely meant 
ARISSA: Don't apologise. 
ODO: Well, I'm going to see if they've made any progress decoding the crystal. Make yourself comfortable. I'll check in on you later. 
ARISSA: I'm not going anywhere. 
[Holosuite limousine]
(JB, 006 3/4, is helping the lovely woman from the PADD out of her parachute harness.);
BASHIR: Let me help you with that. Extraordinary. You just jumped out of an aeroplane at twenty thousand feet, and yet there's not a hair on your head out of place. 
(Although the car appears to be in motion, there's a knock on the window. Bashir draws his gun and winds down the window.) 
BASHIR: Odo. 
ODO: I'm sorry to interrupt. I need to talk to you. Alone. 
(Odo opens the door to get in.) 
BASHIR: Driver, stop the car. We'll just be a minute. 
(The woman gets out.) 
ODO: Isn't that the woman I was supposed to steal away from Falcon? 
BASHIR: Well, yes, but since you didn't show up 
ODO: You swept her off her feet. 
BASHIR: Sort of. 
ODO: Tell me, how did you know she was interested? 
BASHIR: Well it's that kind of programme. What is this all about, Odo? You didn't come here to talk about women, did you? Ah. This is about bedroom eyes, isn't it? 
ODO: Who told you about her? Kira? 
BASHIR: No. 
ODO: Dax. 
BASHIR: Actually it was Miles. If people are talking, it's only because they care. You put on a good front, but anyone who really knows you can tell that you're lonely. If you're interested in this woman, you have to let her know. 
ODO: I can't. 
BASHIR: Why not? 
ODO: What if I? What if she? 
BASHIR: Rejects you? She might. But you can't go through life trying to avoid getting a broken heart. If you do, it'll break from loneliness anyway. So you might as well take a chance. If you don't, she'll move on and you'll never know what you might have had. And living with that is worse than having a broken heart, believe me. 
(A knock on the other window.) 
BASHIR: We're nearly finished, darling. 
(A gun jabs the back of Bashir's head.) 
O'BRIEN: Car trouble, Mister Bashir? Hi, Odo. 
ODO: I should go. Thank you, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Odo. This isn't fair, Chief. Odo and I were talking. 
O'BRIEN: Didn't anyone ever tell you, you shouldn't stop for hitchhikers. 
[Odo's quarters]
ARISSA: Hello. 
ODO: Hello. I didn't expect to find you awake. 
ARISSA: I couldn't sleep. 
ODO: If the bed isn't comfortable, I 
ARISSA: The bed is fine. I guess you have no news for me. 
ODO: Chief O'Brien is going to run a quantum scan on the crystal in the morning. 
ARISSA: I'd like to be there. I might be able to help. 
ODO: I'll arrange it. 
ARISSA: I'm not in your way, am I? 
ODO: No. No, not at all. I, er, I usually read for an hour or two. 
ARISSA: What are you reading? 
ODO: It's a detective novel. 
ARISSA: Have you figured out who did it yet? 
ODO: By the third page. 
ARISSA: Well, I should let you get back to your book. 
ODO: I don't really feel like reading. Perhaps we could talk for a while? 
ARISSA: What do you want to talk about? 
(Odo kisses her.) 
ARISSA: Tell me more. 
[Odo's bedroom]
(In the afterglow.) 
ARISSA: I could swear that when we first met, your nose had a little curve right here. 
ODO: I tend to look a little different every day 
ARISSA: But you always manage to make these the same. 
ODO: I pay special attention to my scowl. An air of stern suspicion is very important in my line of work. 
ARISSA: What? Why are you looking at me that way? 
ODO: I'm just trying to figure something out. 
ARISSA: Tell me. Maybe I can help. 
ODO: You're the first woman I've ever been close with. I've never been able to let down my guard. I was just wondering what makes you different. 
ARISSA: Wait a minute. Have you never been with anyone else before? 
ODO: Not with a humanoid. Once, on my homeworld, I had an experience that you might consider sexual. 
ARISSA: But you've never been with a woman before? 
ODO: Could you tell? 
ARISSA: No. 
ODO: Good. I don't ever want to leave this room. Can we stay here forever? 
ARISSA: I wish we could. 
ODO: Arissa? Everything is going to work out. 
ARISSA: I want to believe that, but I know what the Orion Syndicate does to people who turn against them. I don't want to spend the rest of my life looking over my shoulder. I'm sorry. I shouldn't have brought it up. Let's just be together. 
ODO: All right. 
ARISSA: Tell me more about this encounter you had on your homeworld. 
ODO: It was with another changeling. Our bodies became intermingled. 
ARISSA: Sounds nice. Too bad I'm not a changeling. 
ODO: We shouldn't let that stop us. 
[Ops]
DAX: She spent the night in his quarters. 
KIRA: He had her under protective custody. 
DAX: Come on, Nerys. He could have put her somewhere else. 
KIRA: You know how Odo is. He likes to be thorough. 
DAX: It was more than that. 
WORF: Commander. 
KIRA: What makes you say that? 
DAX: Instinct. 
WORF: Jadzia. 
DAX: What? 
WORF: You asked to be told when the sensor array became available. 
DAX: Thank you. Odo and a woman. It was bound to happen sooner or later, right? 
KIRA: I suppose. 
WORF: You can begin your experiment at any time. 
DAX: I'm talking to Kira. 
WORF: You are not talking, you are gossiping. And besides, Odo is capable of taking care of himself. 
DAX: Don't shout across the room. If you want to gossip with us, then come down here. 
(Sisko enters) 
SISKO: Where's Odo? He asked me to arrange a conference with Starfleet Intelligence at oh eight hundred. 
DAX: I guess he's running late. 
SISKO: He's never late. 
DAX: He never spent the night with a woman before. 
SISKO: A woman? That's nice. Isn't it? 
(Odo enters) 
WORF: Constable. 
ODO: Good morning. 
SISKO: Starfleet Intelligence is ready when you are. 
(Odo and Sisko got into the office.) 
DAX: Did you see the look on Odo's face? I'm telling you, something happened. 
[Odo's quarters]
(Arissa is using Odo's computer. On the screen we see Draim, let's talk. Arissa. Transmitting. Identification code 0159Z-24.) 
[Cargo bay]
TRAIDY: I talked to Draim. The woman asked to make a deal. She gives us the crystal, Draim lets her go. 
SORM: So we don't have to kill her. 
TRAIDY: Don't be stupid. As soon as we've got the crystal, she dies. 
SORM: Oh. Makes sense. 
[Security office]
ODO: You can release the Talarian as soon as he's sober, but tell him to stay away from raktajino. It obviously doesn't agree with him. I'll be in science lab four. 
(The Deputy leaves and an Idanian enters.) 
ODO: Can I help you? 
IDANIAN: You're Security Chief Odo? 
ODO: Yes. 
IDANIAN: I'm here about the communication you sent to the Idanian government. 
ODO: Go on. 
IDANIAN: Where's Arissa? Is she safe? 
ODO: You know her? 
IDANIAN: Better than she knows herself. 
ODO: What does that mean? 
IDANIAN: She's not who she seems to be. She's an intelligence agent with my government. She was sent to infiltrate Draim's organisation. 
ODO: That's impossible. She would have told me. 
IDANIAN: She doesn't know. 
ODO: I don't understand. 
IDANIAN: We gave her a new identity before we sent her in. All her previous memories were removed and stored on the datacrystal. If you take me to her, I'll explain the rest. 
[Science lab]
(O'Brien is on the floor, groaning. A deputy is out cold.) 
ODO: Chief, are you all right? 
IDANIAN: The datacrystal, where is it? 
ODO: Forget about the crystal. We have to find Arissa. 
IDANIAN: That crystal is Arissa. 
O'BRIEN: She took the crystal. I don't know where she went. 
IDANIAN: It generates a distinctive signal. We might be able to track it. 
[Cargo bay]
ARISSA: Is anyone here? 
TRAIDY: Just me. 
(Liar, liar, pants on fire.) 
[Corridor]
ODO: What's wrong? 
IDANIAN: I've lost it. The crystal's quantum signature starts to fade after a few minutes. 
[Cargo bay]
TRAIDY: Do you have it? 
ARISSA: Maybe. 
TRAIDY: I thought we had a deal. Your life for the crystal. 
ARISSA: I just want to make sure that you live up to your end. 
(Traidy shows that he has nothing in his hands, up his sleeves, or tucked into his waistband.) 
TRAIDY: Your turn. 
ARISSA: Do you really think I'd be stupid enough to come here with a weapon? 
TRAIDY: Indulge me. 
(So she goes through the same moves.) 
TRAIDY: Very smart. 
(Arissa hands over the crystal.) 
TRAIDY: Do you have any idea what's on this? 
ARISSA: No. You're going to have to figure that out for yourself. 
TRAIDY: Oh, don't go yet. You haven't met my associate. 
(Sorm steps out.) 
ARISSA: How are you? 
SORM: Fine, thank you. 
ARISSA: Draim and I had a deal. 
TRAIDY: He was in a very emotional state when he agreed to it. The truth is, you really hurt his feelings when you left. 
SORM: He liked you. Maybe you should close your eyes. 
(A door opens, Sorm turns. Then a second opens, and a third as Odo trickles through a ceiling grill.) 
TRAIDY: You were supposed to secure the doors! 
SORM: I did. 
(Odo lands solidly on Traidy. Arissa takes Sorm.) 
IDANIAN: Don't move. 
(Odo hits Sorm anyway.) 
ODO: Are you all right? 
ARISSA: Yes. I just wish I knew what this is all about. 
[Infirmary]
(Arissa's dataport is activated.) 
BASHIR: The memory transfer will take a few minutes. 
SISKO: How long was she undercover? 
IDANIAN: She volunteered for the operation two years ago. After we altered her memories, we placed her on Finnea. She woke up the next morning believing she was a different person. 
SISKO: With no memory of her former life as an intelligence agent? 
IDANIAN: That was crucial to the plan. Draim employs telepaths to scan everyone who works for him. It was the only way to get past them. We left her in place long enough to become a trusted member of Draim's organisation. When we were ready to recall her, we had Tauvid make contact. We'd imprinted a trace memory designed to make her feel she could trust him. That way, she'd agree to meet. With what she knows about Draim, we're going to be able to cripple his entire organisation. As soon as she's debriefed, we plan to issue the indictments. 
ODO: You make it sound as if it all went according to plan. She was nearly killed. 
IDANIAN: She knew the risks when she volunteered. We did everything we could to minimise them. Every stage of this operation was meticulously planned. 
ODO: Including what just happened in the cargo bay? 
SISKO: Why didn't you tell us what was going on when you found out Tauvid had been killed? 
IDANIAN: If Draim's people had monitored the transmission, it would have compromised the entire operation. We couldn't risk it. All that matters is that she's safe and that Draim is going to prison for a long time. 
BASHIR: The transfer's complete. I'm going to take her to surgery. 
[Odo's quarters]
(Doorbell) 
ODO: Yes. 
(Arissa the Idanian enters.) 
ODO: Arissa? That's not even your name, is it? 
ARISSA: There's something you need to know. I'm married. I have a husband. 
ODO: I see. 
ARISSA: I'm so sorry. 
ODO: Don't be. You didn't know. It's not your fault. I fell in love with a woman who never really existed. 
ARISSA: She did exist. She was real. And she loved you. In a way, she still does. 
ODO: Will I ever see you again? 
ARISSA: I don't know. I'll never forget you, Odo. Never. 

