Episode Number: 551
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Image In The Sand
Image In The Sand
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 28 Sep, 1998
Last time on Star Trek Deep Space Nine.
ROSS: Starfleet has chosen you to plan the invasion of Cardassia. 
(The destruction of the defences at Chin'toka.) 
(Dukat freeing the pah-wraith and becoming possessed.) 
(Pah wraith Dukat attacking Jadzia Dax.) 
BASHIR: I managed to save the Dax symbiont. There was nothing I could do for Jadzia. 
(Worf warning the afterlife that a Klingon warrior's soul is coming.) 
(The Pah wraith leaving Dukat and the wormhole collapsing in on itself.) 
WEYOUN: Federation soldiers have landed on Cardassian soil and now you're telling me the wormhole is gone and with it any chance of getting reinforcements from the Gamma Quadrant. 
SISKO: Why aren't you still here, Jadzia? I need you to help me sort things out. Something's happened to the Prophets, something that's made them turn their backs on Bajor and I'm responsible. And I don't know what to do about it, how to make it right again. I've failed as the Emissary, and for the first time in my life I've failed in my duty as a Starfleet officer. 
SISKO: The station's all yours, Major. 
KIRA: She'll be here when you get back. 
SISKO: Let's go home, Jake. 
And now, the continuation.
[Promenade - upper level]
(There's a vigil being held down below outside the Shrine.)
ODO: Colonel. 
KIRA: I wish you'd stop doing that. 
ODO: Doing what? 
KIRA: Calling me by my rank. I was promoted two months ago. Besides, it sounds so formal. 
ODO: Well, has Admiral Ross, or should I say Bill, arrived yet? 
KIRA: The admiral's ship is due in three hours, and I wish I knew what he wanted to talk to me about. 
ODO: Maybe he's bringing good news. We could certainly use it. 
KIRA: Yeah, well don't get your hopes up. There was something about the tone of his voice. 
ODO: Something ominous? 
KIRA: Something pleasant. It was like he was going out of his way to be nice. 
ODO: I see. 
KIRA: Well, whatever he wants to tell me, he knows I'm not going to like it. 
ODO: How can you be so sure? 
KIRA: It comes with the job. No, I'm serious. Sitting in the Captain's chair, having that kind of responsibility, it focuses you. 
ODO: Well, I'll take your word for it. 
KIRA: How long have they been there? 
ODO: Three days. 
KIRA: I remember when the cult of the Pah wraiths was a joke. Now those red armbands are appearing all over Bajor. It's like everyone's gone crazy. 
ODO: A lot of people feel abandoned by the Prophets. 
KIRA: Believe me, I know how they feel. That's no excuse to turn to hate and fear. 
ODO: In times of trouble, some people find comfort in hate and fear. If you'd like, I can charge them with loitering and have them removed from the station. 
KIRA: Oh, what good would that do? I keep thinking if the Emissary were here, things might be different. 
ODO: I would have thought we would have heard from Captain Sisko by now. 
KIRA: Not a word in three months. 
ODO: Nerys. I realise that things may seem bleak at the moment, but there's always hope. 
KIRA: When did you turn into an optimist? 
ODO: Must have been that day in front of Quark's, when we kissed for the first time. 
KIRA: That was some kiss, wasn't it? 
ODO: Changed my life. 
[Bridge]
(Defiant docks with DS9.) 
O'BRIEN: Gentlemen, we are home. 
BASHIR: There should be a law against convoy duty lasting more than ten days. 
NOG: I'll say one thing for guarding convoys, it's usually a lot safer than being on the front lines. 
WORF: Is that the reason you joined Starfleet, Ensign? To be safe? 
NOG: I didn't mean that the way it sounded, sir. 
WORF: In wartime, it is the duty of every soldier fight. 
NOG: Yes, sir. 
WORF: The invasion of Cardassia has ground to a halt while our casualties continue to mount. It is a time for warriors to do great deeds, to triumph in glorious battle, not waste away protecting a shipment of stembolts. 
(Worf leaves.) 
NOG: I hope Commander Worf doesn't think I'm afraid to fight. 
O'BRIEN: Relax, don't take it so personally. Worf is just going through a bad time at the moment. 
BASHIR: I think he needs to focus on something other than Jadzia, and I hate to admit it but a little combat duty just might do the trick. 
O'BRIEN: Pretty soon the Defiant will be going into battle, Worf will be happy and the rest of us will be miserable. 
NOG: It's not that I'm afraid to fight, I just don't want to die. I wish Captain Sisko were here. 
O'BRIEN: So do I, Ensign. So do I. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(It's a busy night. Sisko is playing jazz piano, Joseph is maitre d' and Jake is waiting on table.) 
JOSEPH: If I were you, I'd order the crawfish etoufee. And if it's good enough for you, it's good enough for him. I think table five is ready to order. 
JAKE: He's been at that piano since seven o'clock this morning. 
JOSEPH: Customers seem to like it. 
JAKE: Grandpa. 
JOSEPH: Look, I'm worried too, but he's got something to work out. Best we leave him alone. 
JAKE: We've left him alone for three months. He said he came here to figure out a way to contact the Prophets, to make things right. So far he hasn't even left the restaurant. 
(Sisko's baseball rolls off the piano and leans over to get it he goes into a vision of himself digging in a desert to uncover the carved face of a woman. The stone turns into dark skin and her eyes open. End of vision.) 
JAKE: Dad? What's wrong? Dad? 
SISKO: I had a vision from the Prophets. I was on Tyree, in the desert, digging in the sand, and I uncovered a face. The face of a woman. 
JAKE: And? 
SISKO: And that's all. 
JAKE: Who was she? 
SISKO: I've never seen her before, but now I know why I came back here, Jake. I have to find her. I have to. 
[Captain's office]
(Kira is looking at biography 4774 on a PADD.) 
ROSS: Colonel, I really don't see anything for you to be concerned about. I've met Senator Cretak and found her to be very cooperative. 
KIRA: For a Romulan. 
ROSS: Cretak's a strong supporter of the Alliance and we're going to need that kind of support if we're going to win this war. 
KIRA: I wouldn't care if the Romulans were the only thing standing between us and total annihilation. I would still think twice before allowing them to establish a military presence here on the station. 
ROSS: We're just talking about a few offices for the senator and her staff. 
KIRA: And a contingent of personal guards. 
ROSS: A dozen people at most. Besides, it's just a temporary arrangement until the end of the war. 
KIRA: And when will that be? 
ROSS: Let's get one thing straight, Colonel. I came here as a courtesy to you. This decision has already been made. 
KIRA: And I have to live with it. 
ROSS: That's right. You've done a fine job taking over for Captain Sisko. 
KIRA: I'm just keeping his seat warm. 
ROSS: You still think he's coming back? 
KIRA: Don't you? 
ROSS: I'll be in touch. 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: As you can see, we've halted the Klingon advance against Monac Four. We estimate their casualties to be at least thirty percent. 
WEYOUN: They should've been higher. Nevertheless, congratulations, Damar. The enemy remains bottled up in the Chin'toka system and that's where they'll stay until we destroy them. 
(Damar pours himself a drink.) 
DAMAR: I'd offer you a glass, but I know how much you dislike kanar. 
WEYOUN: I'm beginning to think you like it too much. 
DAMAR: I wouldn't trust a Cardassian that didn't enjoy a glass of kanar every once in a while. 
WEYOUN: Tell me, Damar, when you're alone, do you even bother with a glass, or do you just drink that swill directly from the bottle? 
DAMAR: Depends on my mood. And right now, I feel like celebrating. We owe Gul Dukat a debt of gratitude. 
WEYOUN: Unfortunately, I agree. Somehow, releasing that Pah wraith into the wormhole has shifted the momentum of the war into our favour. 
DAMAR: Do you ever wonder what goes on? Inside the wormhole, I mean. 
WEYOUN: Not really. 
DAMAR: The Prophets and the Pah wraiths locked in some form of celestial battle. It's fascinating. 
WEYOUN: I never realised you had such a vivid imagination. 
DAMAR: There's a lot about me you don't know. 
WEYOUN: Just remember, too much imagination can be dangerous. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(After hours, Sisko is trying to put together a photofit of the woman in his vision) 
JAKE: Dad, Grandpa and I are going to Armstrong Park to listen to some music. You want to come? 
SISKO: You two go ahead. 
JAKE: What's that? 
SISKO: The woman in my vision. I don't want to forget her face. I'll see you in the morning. 
JAKE: Hey, I've seen her before. 
SISKO: Where? 
JAKE: In a photograph. I'll be right back. 
(Sisko keeps adjusting eyes and nose while Jake runs upstairs and comes back with a small photograph.) 
JAKE: Here she is. I knew it. It's her, isn't it? 
SISKO: She's with Grandpa. I don't understand. Who is she? 
JAKE: Why don't you ask Grandpa? 
JOSEPH: Ask me what? 
SISKO: This woman. 
JOSEPH: Where'd you get that? 
JAKE: I found it last week when I was cleaning out the storage room. I meant to ask you about it. 
SISKO: So who is she, Dad? 
JOSEPH: No one at all, you hear me? She's no one at all. 
[Las Vegas lounge]
(Worf can't sleep.) 
VIC: Hey, pallie, where you been keeping yourself? 
WORF: Convoy duty. 
VIC: Doesn't sound very exciting. 
WORF: It was not. 
VIC: Well, if you're looking for some action, you've come to the right place. What do you say we hit the craps tables, huh? Or maybe some blackjack to get the blood pumping? 
WORF: Sing the song. 
VIC: I don't think that's such a good idea. 
WORF: Sing the song. 
VIC: C'mon, pallie, why rub salt in an open wound? 
WORF: You are a hologram. You are programmed to do as I say. Sing the song. 
VIC: It's your dime. Park it right there. And don't say I didn't warn you. Which reminds me of a story Joey once told me (Link to Joey Bishop?) 
WORF: Sing! 
VIC: Son of a gun, I think he means it. Hey, you heard the man. 
(My favourite James Darren song 'All the Way' ends with Worf smashing up the joint.) 
[Romulan command post]
(The new office is being set up.) 
CRETAK: This monitor is still offline. I want it operational within the hour. I hope all the chairs on this station aren't this uncomfortable. 
KIRA: I'm afraid they are. But don't worry, you'll get used to them. 
CRETAK: I'm sure I will. You must be Colonel Kira. 
KIRA: I'm sorry I wasn't at the airlock to greet you when you arrived, but I was 
CRETAK: No need to explain, Colonel. You must be quite busy. 
KIRA: I hope you find your accommodations satisfactory. Other than the chairs, of course. 
CRETAK: I'm sure we'll be quite comfortable here. I trust that won't be a problem for you. 
KIRA: Meaning what? 
CRETAK: My people have a reputation for arrogance. I'm afraid it's well earned. 
KIRA: But you're different. Or so Admiral Ross tells me. 
CRETAK: The admiral and I have a good working relationship. I hope to have a similar one with you. 
KIRA: I'd like nothing more. 
CRETAK: Then I look forward to working with you toward our common goal, the destruction of the Dominion. 
[Las Vegas lounge]
(Nothing is left in one piece, except a small lampshade or two.) 
BASHIR: Worf did this? 
VIC: With his own two hands. And it's not the first time he's busted up the joint. I don't care how much he threatens me, that's the last time I ever sing 'All the Way.' If he wants to hear it again, let him buy a Sinatra album. 
BASHIR: All the Way. That was Jadzia's favourite song. I'm sorry, Vic, but you're going to have to forgive him. He's having a hard time accepting her death. 
QUARK: So am I, but you don't see me busting up the joint. 
BASHIR: She wasn't your wife. 
QUARK: She should have been. 
BASHIR: There is something wrong. 
VIC: That's what I've been telling you. 
BASHIR: Klingons usually have a shorter mourning period than humans. They accept death more readily than we do. 
VIC: Well, something is driving Worf cuckoo. Your buddy needs to get some serious help and soon. The band is threatening to quit. 
QUARK: They can't quit. They're holograms. 
VIC: They don't know that. 
BASHIR: I'll see what I can do. 
VIC: Hang in there, pallie. 
BASHIR: I'll try, but I think Jadzia's death has made us all a little cuckoo. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
SISKO: Dad? 
JOSEPH: You should be in bed. 
SISKO: Not until you tell me what I need to know. 
JOSEPH: I already told you. She's no one. 
SISKO: You're going to have to do better than that. 
JOSEPH: Leave it be, Ben. 
SISKO: I can't. I saw her. The vision the Prophets sent me. She was the woman in the desert. 
JOSEPH: That's impossible. 
SISKO: I'm telling you, I saw her. 
JOSEPH: You couldn't have. 
SISKO: Dad, please. Who is she? 
JOSEPH: I'm sorry, but I don't want to talk about it. 
SISKO: Dad. 
JOSEPH: No! 
SISKO: You have to tell me. I need to know who she is! 
JOSEPH: Her name was Sarah. I met her in June of '31. It was in Jackson Square. She was, without a doubt, the most beautiful woman I'd ever seen. Two months later, we were married. 
SISKO: Married? You had a wife before Mum? 
JOSEPH: It's a little bit more complicated than that, Ben. You see, Sarah was your mother. 
(During the break, Sisko makes hot drinks for them both.) 
JOSEPH: Sarah and I were married for two years. She seemed very happy. I certainly was. Two days after your first birthday, she disappeared. 
SISKO: What do you mean she disappeared? 
JOSEPH: She left me. 
SISKO: Why? 
JOSEPH: I've asked myself that question a thousand times. I never did come up with the answer. 
SISKO: And you never found out what happened to her? 
JOSEPH: It took me three years, but I found out. She was living in Australia working as a holo-photographer. 
SISKO: Well, I have to speak with her. 
JOSEPH: You can't. 
SISKO: Damn it, Dad, I have to. 
JOSEPH: She's dead. She died in a hovercraft accident about a month before I tracked her down. I loved that woman and she loved me. I know she did. 
SISKO: Why didn't you tell me about her? 
JOSEPH: I wanted to, many times. But you were so young when she left. 
SISKO: I grew up. 
JOSEPH: I thought that might make it easier, but it didn't. 
SISKO: That's no excuse. 
JOSEPH: I know. I'm sorry. But you see, you and your stepmother were so close. She made you laugh like nobody else, and I didn't want anything to get in the way of that. 
SISKO: I loved Momma. Nothing would've changed that. 
JOSEPH: She said the same thing. 
SISKO: You should have listened to her. 
JOSEPH: Life is full of choices. You make them and hope for the best. Sometimes you're right, and sometimes you're not. I made a mistake. 
SISKO: Yeah, you did. 
JOSEPH: I still don't understand why the Prophets would send you a vision of Sarah. 
SISKO: I came back here to clear my head, to try to figure out what to do next. Maybe learning the truth about my mother is the first step of this journey. 
JOSEPH: Well, from here on out, I hope the Prophets keep their noses out of my business. 
SISKO: Are there any other secrets I should know about? 
JOSEPH: Just my gumbo recipe, but I'm taking that to my grave. 
[Promenade]
CRETAK: Colonel, I was just coming to see you. What is it? 
KIRA: Nothing. I just never thought I'd see a Romulan eating a jumja stick. 
CRETAK: I was curious. 
KIRA: And? 
CRETAK: It has a distinct flavour. 
KIRA: Personally, I can't stand them. Too sweet. 
CRETAK: Then you should try a Romulan osol twist. Very tart. 
KIRA: I'll do that. 
CRETAK: I wanted to let you know that a squadron of warbirds will be arriving at the station tomorrow morning for refitting. 
KIRA: I'll tell Chief O'Brien to start replicating Romulan system modules. 
CRETAK: Excellent. I had no idea Bajorans were so efficient. 
KIRA: Coming from a Romulan, that's quite a compliment. 
CRETAK: Oh, one more thing. It's about Bajor's fourth moon. 
KIRA: Derna? 
CRETAK: It's uninhabited, correct? 
KIRA: Last time I checked. 
CRETAK: Do you think your government would allow us to set up a hospital facility there? Too many of our wounded are dying on the long journey back to Romulus. 
KIRA: I'll ask the Council of Ministers. 
CRETAK: I'd appreciate anything you can do. 
[Corridor]
BASHIR: You've got to get him talking. But whatever you do, don't mention Jadzia. Let him do that. 
O'BRIEN: I don't think Worf wants to talk about her. 
BASHIR: He may not want to but he needs to, I think. Given the right circumstances, he will. 
O'BRIEN: Well, we have one circumstance in our favour. Twenty three oh one. A very good year for bloodwine. 
BASHIR: I'll let you do your work. You sure one bottle's going to be enough? 
O'BRIEN: Good bye, Julian. 
(O'Brien rings Worf's doorbell as Bashir leaves.) 
WORF: Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Can I come in? 
WORF: Why? 
O'BRIEN: Well, because it's been a long time since we shared one of these. 
[Worf's quarters]
O'BRIEN: Got any glasses? 
WORF: None that are clean. 
O'BRIEN: Oh well, who needs glasses, hey? Cheers. (swigs from the bottle) Mmm. Warm the cockles. 
WORF: Very smooth. Good night, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Hold on. You call that a visit? 
WORF: I enjoyed it. 
O'BRIEN: Come on, Worf. I came to talk. 
WORF: About what? 
O'BRIEN: Anything you want. Old friends, the Enterprise. Remember what's his name, Lieutenant Barclay? 
WORF: Who can forget him? 
O'BRIEN: Those holosuite programmes of his. 
WORF: 
The Three Musketeers
. 
O'BRIEN: Geordi waving that sword around. 
[Quark's]
(Quark brings coffee and orange juice to Miles, who is not at all well.) 
O'BRIEN: Ah, that's better. 
QUARK: So, what did you find out? 
O'BRIEN: That you should never try to match drinks with a Klingon. 
QUARK: Yeah, yeah, but what did you and Worf talk about? 
BASHIR: Why do you care? 
QUARK: Because some day that crazy Klingon may get tired of smashing up a holosuite bar and decide to come down here and smash up a real one. 
BASHIR: What did you talk about? 
O'BRIEN: A lot of things. His son, Alexander. Growing up in Russia. The proper way to eat gagh. 
QUARK: What does any of that have to do with Jadzia? 
O'BRIEN: Nothing. It wasn't until about oh four hundred, when we were polishing off the third bottle of bloodwine that he even mentioned Jadzia. You know, this could be a little sweeter. 
BASHIR: Miles, what did he say about her? 
O'BRIEN: She's not in Sto-vo-kor. 
QUARK: You mean Klingon heaven? What would she be doing there? She wasn't a Klingon. 
O'BRIEN: As far as Worf is concerned, she was. She did join the House of Martok. 
BASHIR: Then what makes him think she's not in Sto-vo-kor? 
O'BRIEN: For one thing, she never ate the heart of one of her enemies. 
QUARK: She always was a little squeamish. 
O'BRIEN: And secondly, she didn't die in glorious battle. 
QUARK: You mean being murdered by a Pah wraith in cold blood doesn't count? 
O'BRIEN: Do you want to know what's bothering Worf or not? 
BASHIR: There's more? 
O'BRIEN: Apparently there is a way for Worf to ensure that Jadzia gets into Sto-vo-kor. He has to win a great battle in her name. 
QUARK: I could let him beat me at tongo. 
O'BRIEN: Not good enough. Unless he has to carve his way through a hundred Jem'Hadar to get to the table. 
QUARK: Why does everything with Klingons have to involve bloodshed? 
BASHIR: No wonder he's been so frustrated with convoy duty. Maybe we should talk to Admiral Ross. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, yeah, I can see it now. Admiral, could you please send the Defiant on the most dangerous mission you can think of? Jadzia needs to get into Sto-vo-kor. 
QUARK: Sounds good to me. 
BASHIR: Then you ask him. 
O'BRIEN: What about General Martok? He's due to arrive on the station tomorrow morning. 
BASHIR: Good thinking. Who better than a Klingon to help a Klingon? 
[Sisko's restaurant - alley]
(Sisko is scrubbing the clams.) 
JOSEPH: Beautiful night, isn't it? 
SISKO: I'm sure you're right. 
JOSEPH: You thinking about Sarah? 
SISKO: Actually, I was thinking about Jadzia. She always used to be here to help me sort things out. I miss her. 
JOSEPH: I know you do. I came out to give you this. (a locket on a chain) It was Sarah's. I want you to have it. I think she would have, too. 
SISKO: Thanks, Dad. 
JOSEPH: There's some kind of writing on the back. 
(Sisko takes it under the door light to see.) 
JOSEPH: What's the matter? 
SISKO: This writing. It's ancient Bajoran. 
JOSEPH: What does it say? 
SISKO: I don't know. But I intend to find out. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(Breakfast time, and Sisko is trying to get a translation with the help of PADDs.) 
JOSEPH: I still don't understand why Sarah would have a locket with Bajoran writing on it. I don't recall her ever mentioning Bajor to me. 
JAKE: Maybe she didn't know it was Bajoran. Maybe it was a gift from someone. 
SISKO: Finally, some progress. 
JOSEPH: What is it? 
SISKO: The inscription. It says Orb of the Emissary. 
JAKE: I never knew there was an Orb of the Emissary. 
SISKO: I've never heard of it either. At least, there's no mention of it in the Bajoran Ancient Texts. 
JOSEPH: Sounds like you've reached a dead end. 
SISKO: Not necessarily. What if the Orb does exist? What if it didn't go dark like all the others when the wormhole disappeared? 
JAKE: If you can find it, maybe you can find a way to contact the Prophets. 
SISKO: Oh, I'm going to find it. 
JOSEPH: But it could be anywhere. Where do you begin to look? 
SISKO: Tyree. 
JAKE: Why there? 
SISKO: Because that's where I was in the vision the Prophets sent me. 
[Wardroom]
(The casualty list is up on the wall.) 
CRETAK: Are these the latest casualty reports? 
KIRA: From the Dominion counterattack in the Chin'toka system. I'm afraid that your people took the brunt of the assault. 
CRETAK: What matters is that we held our position. As for our casualties, at least we now have the hospital complex on Derna to care for the wounded. And we have you to thank, Colonel. 
KIRA: Oh, no. All I did was put in your request to the Council of Ministers. They made the decision. 
CRETAK: Under your advisement, I'm sure. All of Romulus owes you a debt of gratitude. 
KIRA: I'll keep that in mind. 
[Promenade]
ODO: Do you have a moment? 
KIRA: I do for you. 
ODO: This morning, a Starfleet transport filled with wounded was denied permission to dock at the Romulan hospital complex on Derna. 
KIRA: Well, the hospital may not be equipped to treat other species. 
ODO: I thought the same thing myself, until I noticed that most of the wounded were Vulcans. Vulcans and Romulans share a common physiology. 
KIRA: And a mutual distrust of one another. That doesn't change just because they're allies against the Dominion. 
ODO: True. But how do you explain these sensor readings? 
KIRA: High concentrations of trilithium isotopes. 
ODO: Which indicates the presence of Romulan plasma torpedoes. 
KIRA: I'll look into it. 
[Holosuite caves]
(Worf is doing vigorous Mok'bara exercises with a bat'leth when Martok enters.) 
MARTOK: Defend yourself, Worf. 
(Clashes of steel on steel.) 
MARTOK: So, how do you like convoy duty? 
WORF: I don't. 
MARTOK: Good. I was afraid you might be getting soft. I need a first officer for a dangerous mission. 
WORF: How dangerous? 
MARTOK: Dangerous enough to assure Jadzia a place in Sto-vo-kor. 
(More blows, then Worf disarms Martok and knocks him down.) 
WORF: In that case, you have found your first officer. 
MARTOK: Excellent. It will be a great victory. 
WORF: I will make sure of it. 
[Sisko's restaurant - alley]
(Taking out the trash.) 
JAKE: How many clams do you think you've cleaned since we got here? 
SISKO: A lot. That was going to be my last batch, but then I got to thinking. Maybe I'll take a couple of sacks along with me tomorrow on the runabout, give me something to do on the way to Tyree. 
JAKE: You're kidding, right? 
SISKO: Jake, if I never see another clam BOTH: It'll be too soon. 
(Jake goes back inside. Sisko sees someone in a red cloak in the alleyway.) 
SISKO: Can I help you? 
BAJORAN: Emissary, I've come a long way to see you. This moment is sacred, one that will be long remembered. Meeh rak Dorah Pah wran. Ee toi Velah slah. Pah wran amar. Pah wran Evak to. 
SISKO: That's ancient Bajoran. 
BAJORAN: The Emissary is wise. 
SISKO: Thank you, but right now the Emissary has to get back to work. 
BAJORAN: Your work is finished. The Orb you are seeking, the Orb of the Emissary? 
SISKO: What did you say? 
(The Bajoran pulls a knife and slashes Sisko across the abdomen.) 
BAJORAN: You're never going to find it. 
(Jake knocks the attacker out with a sack, presumably of clams.) 
JAKE: Grandpa! Grandpa! 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(The lunchtime crowd is in.) 
JOSEPH: Today's special is shrimp creole. Ah, actually, it's barbecued shrimp. 
(Sisko and Jake enter.) 
JOSEPH: Excuse me. Where were you? They told me you were released from the hospital two hours ago. 
SISKO: I had to give a report to Starfleet Security. 
(They sit at a table in the patio area.) 
JOSEPH: And the Bajoran that attacked you, who was he? 
SISKO: He was a member of a cult that worships the Pah wraiths. They believe that the disappearance of the Prophets will herald a new era for Bajor. 
JOSEPH: I don't suppose I can talk you out of going to Tyree. 
SISKO: If you're worried about the cult 
JOSEPH: I figure you can handle them. But if the cult knows you're looking for the Orb of the Emissary, chances are the Pah wraiths do as well. And that does worry me. 
[Quark's]
(A Klingon ship is leaving.) 
O'BRIEN: Well, here's to Worf and the success of his mission. 
BASHIR: Qapla'. 
QUARK: I don't see why you two are so happy. An entire Klingon fleet failed to destroy the Dominion shipyards at Monac Four. What makes you think one ship will do any better? 
BASHIR: The element of surprise? 
QUARK: If you ask me, it's not a mission, it's suicide. 
BASHIR: You're beginning to depress me, Quark. 
QUARK: Why? You're not going. 
O'BRIEN: You can't be serious. 
BASHIR: I've never been more serious in my life. I'm going to help Jadzia get into Sto-vo-kor. 
QUARK: What makes you think she wants to spend eternity there? I know I certainly wouldn't. Imagine what it must be like, hoards of rampaging Klingons fighting and singing, sweating and belching. 
BASHIR: Sounds like this place on a Saturday night. 
QUARK: Would you want to spend eternity here? 
O'BRIEN: That's a good point. What if Jadzia would prefer to go to, you know, wherever it is that Trills go when their time is up. 
BASHIR: Miles, you don't understand. You weren't as close to her as I was. This gives me a chance to honour her memory and I'm going to take it. And that, my friend, is my final word on the subject. 
O'BRIEN: You know what this means, don't you? 
BASHIR: Yes. That I'm risking my life for a very dubious cause. 
O'BRIEN: No, it means I'm going to risk my life for a friend who's risking his life for a very dubious cause. 
QUARK: You're going with him? 
O'BRIEN: Well somebody has to make sure he comes back in one piece. 
BASHIR: Miles, I don't know what to say. I'm touched. 
QUARK: You're both touched. You want to get Jadzia into Sto-vo-kor? Fine, fine, I'm all for it. But can't you do something more sensible? Make a donation in her name or bribe someone? 
BASHIR: It doesn't work that way, Quark. 
(Bashir leaves.) 
O'BRIEN: Be nice if it did. 
[Wardroom]
ROSS: Third fleet has requested two more attack wings of Romulan warbirds. 
CRETAK: That shouldn't be a problem. 
ROSS: Now, if we 
(Kira enters.) 
KIRA: Senator, I have a message for you from the Bajoran Council of Ministers. 
ROSS: We're in the middle of a meeting here, Colonel. 
KIRA: Sorry, sir, this can't wait. 
(Cretak takes the PADD from Kira.) 
CRETAK: Apparently, we're no longer welcome on Derna. 
ROSS: They want to close down the hospital? 
KIRA: The hospital isn't the problem. 
ROSS: Then what is? 
KIRA: The seven thousand plasma torpedoes the Romulans have secretly deployed there. 
ROSS: Is this true, Senator? 
CRETAK: The weapons are for defensive purposes only. 
KIRA: Well my government doesn't agree. You're to begin an immediate evacuation. 
CRETAK: I'm afraid that's impossible. 
ROSS: Let's try to stay calm. I'm sure we can reach some sort of compromise. 
KIRA: Not this time, Admiral. My government considers the Romulan presence on Derna to be a direct threat to Bajor. 
CRETAK: This is ridiculous. I regret not informing your government about our weapon emplacements, but I didn't think it was necessary. We're your ally. 
KIRA: Then remove the weapons. 
CRETAK: That would leave the hospital unprotected. 
KIRA: Bajor will guarantee its safety. 
CRETAK: I'm afraid that's not acceptable. 
KIRA: Either you remove those weapons, or we will. 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: See that Gul Yaltar of the Third Order receives this immediately. 
(Officer leaves, Weyoun enters.) 
WEYOUN: Have you heard? The Romulans have taken over a Bajoran moon and heavily fortified it. 
DAMAR: My guess is that the Bajorans aren't happy about that. 
WEYOUN: Would you be? This is the sort of unfortunate situation that could destroy an alliance. 
DAMAR: That would be a pity. 
WEYOUN: Romulans. They're so predictably treacherous. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(Sisko comes downstairs with his bag.) 
SISKO: What's going on? Why is the restaurant closed? 
JOSEPH: I am going on vacation. To Tyree. 
JAKE: We're coming with you, Dad. 
SISKO: Are you both lost your minds? 
JOSEPH: Apparently it runs in the family. 
SISKO: You've obviously already packed your bags. 
JAKE: Yes. I even brought my toothbrush. 
(A knock on the door.) 
JOSEPH: Oh, nothing I hate more than turning away a customer. 
(He pulls back the net curtain to reveal a petite brunette Trill Ensign.) 
JOSEPH: I'm sorry, we're closed. 
EZRI: That's all right, Mister Sisko, I'm not hungry. I'm here to see Ben. 
JOSEPH: Oh, you're in luck. (opens the door) Five more minutes and he'd have been gone. 
(Sisko is at the piano again.) 
EZRI: Hello, Benjamin. 
SISKO: Do I know you? 
EZRI: It's me. Dax. 

