Episode Number: 552
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Shadows And Symbols
Shadows And Symbols
Stardate: 52152.6
Original Airdate: 5 Oct, 1998
Last time on Star Trek Deep Space Nine
BASHIR: I managed to save the Dax symbiont. There was nothing I could do for Jadzia. 
(The Pah wraith leaving Dukat and the wormhole collapsing in on itself.) 
WEYOUN: Federation soldiers have landed on Cardassian soil and now you're telling me the wormhole is gone and with it any chance of getting reinforcements from the Gamma Quadrant. 
SISKO: The station's all yours, Major. Let's go home, Jake. 
MARTOK: I need a first officer for a dangerous mission. 
WORF: How dangerous? 
MARTOK: Dangerous enough to assure Jadzia a place in Sto-vo-kor. 
SISKO: I had a vision from the Prophets. I was on Tyree, in the desert, and I uncovered a face. The face of a woman. 
SISKO: You had a wife before Mum? 
JOSEPH: Sarah was your mother. 
KIRA: You're to begin an immediate evacuation. 
CRETAK: I'm afraid that's impossible. 
KIRA: Either you remove those weapons, or we will. 
EZRI: Hello, Benjamin. 
SISKO: Do I know you? 
EZRI: It's me. Dax. 
And now, the continuation.
[Sisko's restaurant]
SISKO: Dax? I can't believe it. 
EZRI: I can hardly believe it myself. But I'm Dax. I mean, I'm not Jadzia Dax. I'm Ezri Dax. But I have all of Jadzia's memories. Not to mention Lela's, Tobin's, Emony's, Audrid's, Joran's, Curzon's. Am I forgetting anyone? 
SISKO: Torias. 
EZRI: Right. You're probably asking yourself who is this person? How did she get the symbiont? Do I even want another Dax in my life? Does she always talk this much? These are all very good questions and I wish I had good answers for you. 
SISKO: The answers can wait. Right now, I'm just glad to see you. 
EZRI: Really? That is so nice of you to say. I'm not usually this emotional. It must be the Emony in me. At least I think it's Emony Hi, Jake. 
JAKE: Hi. 
EZRI: You seem taller. Or am I shorter? You know, none of this was my idea. I never wanted to be joined. 
JAKE: Then how did you get the symbiont? 
EZRI: It was an accident. 
JOSEPH: Some accident. 
EZRI: I was on the Destiny when they brought the Dax symbiont aboard to be taken back to Trill. Halfway through the trip, the symbiont took a turn for the worse and needed to be placed in a host immediately. 
SISKO: And you were the only Trill on board. 
EZRI: I laid down on that operating table one person and I woke up a completely different person. Well, I should say eight different people. I was not prepared for this at all. I mean, you're supposed to get years of training and preparation before you get joined, and all I got was a fifteen minute lecture from the ship's surgeon and he wasn't even a Trill. 
SISKO: I'm starting to see the problem. Please. 
(Ezri sits.) 
EZRI: You don't how much better I feel just being here with you, Ben. 
SISKO: What about the Symbiosis Institute? Weren't they able to do anything for you? 
EZRI: I did meet with the Evaluation Board several times. 
SISKO: And? 
EZRI: They gave me some books to read, some counselling, but once a host and symbiont are joined, there's really not very much they can do. My parents, my friends, my crewmates, it's like they don't even know me anymore. Which is understandable since I hardly even know myself. That's why I took a leave of absence to come here. I knew that if there is anyone who can help me through this, it would be you. 
SISKO: I'll do all I can, but the truth is, we're leaving for Tyree. 
EZRI: Fine. I'll come with you. 
JAKE: You don't even know why we're going. 
EZRI: It doesn't matter. When do we leave? 
SISKO: Today. 
EZRI: Great. It'll be just like old times. Except different. 
[Klingon bridge]
(An altar of sorts has been set up.) 
WORF: Jadzia Dax Vond Shoo vwee Dun Mahh kekh HuhKo Vahm Jeh Yin Moj Mah Mukh. Sto-vo-kor Pah Dahkh tin Baht leh el eegh cha yay moj. 
(Worf is about to cut his palm when Quark enters.) 
QUARK: Quark, son of Keldar. Did I come at a bad time? 
O'BRIEN: What's he doing here? 
QUARK: Same thing you are. I'm volunteering for this mission. 
MARTOK: Why? You're a bartender, not a warrior. 
QUARK: True, but I loved Jadzia as much as anyone in this room. With maybe one or two exceptions. And I am willing to pledge my life to see that she gets into Sto-vo-kor. 
MARTOK: Perhaps there is some Klingon in you after all. 
QUARK: I wouldn't go that far. So why all the cutlery? 
MARTOK: We shed our blood to prove we are not frightened of death. 
(Martok cuts his palm.) 
QUARK: Can't you just take my word for it? 
(So Martok cuts Quark's hand for him) 
QUARK: Oww! That hurts. 
O'BRIEN: It's supposed to hurt. 
WORF: YuWee modge. Baht leh modge. Yay Dodge. 
(Worf cuts his palm and places it on the bulkhead between the candles.) 
[Runabout]
(Ezri is having to be treated with a hypo.) 
EZRI: This is so embarrassing. 
SISKO: Don't worry, it's not your fault. 
EZRI: I'm a trained Starfleet officer. I've no business getting space sick. But ever since I was given the symbiont, warp speed does make me a little queasy. 
JAKE: A little queasy? 
JOSEPH: The main thing is the control panel's all cleaned up, so if one of you would like to get back into the pilot's seat, it would sure make me feel better. Not that I don't trust the computer. 
JAKE: You just prefer the human touch. 
JOSEPH: Do you need to lie down? 
EZRI: No, I'm fine, really. 
JOSEPH: Well, it's time for my nap. 
(Joseph leaves.) 
JAKE: You're sure you're okay? 
EZRI: But I just wish I could stop thinking about Torias. 
JAKE: Torias Dax? He was one of the previous hosts, wasn't he? 
EZRI: He died in a shuttle accident. I still remember the last few seconds before the crash. Maybe I don't belong in Starfleet anymore. Aren't you glad you brought me along? 
(Ezri goes to the replicator, and Jake follows.) 
JAKE: Actually, I am. My dad seems a lot happier ever since you showed up. 
EZRI: One iced raktajino. I know you've been worried about your father, Jake, but he's going to be all right. 
JAKE: What makes you so sure? 
EZRI: Because I've known him a long time. Besides, it's my job to know these things. I'm a ship's counsellor. Well, actually, an assistant ship's counsellor. 
JAKE: You're a therapist? 
EZRI: Is it that surprising? 
JAKE: A little. 
EZRI: You know, I wasn't always this confused. Before I was joined I was considered to be a very promising young officer. That is horrible. I hate raktajino. 
JAKE: Then why'd you order it? 
EZRI: Because Curzon liked it. 
JAKE: So did Jadzia. 
EZRI: Well, I don't. I have to learn to control some of these urges. 
[Captain's office]
ROSS: I want you to know, Colonel, that I'm as outraged as you are. The Romulans have no business placing weapons on Derna. 
KIRA: I'm glad we're in agreement. What are we going to do about it? 
ROSS: The Federation has already sent a formal protest to the Romulan Senate condemning their actions. 
KIRA: Well that's a start. What happens next? 
ROSS: They've already sent a protest of our protest. Politics. 
KIRA: You still haven't answered my question. 
ROSS: I don't know, Colonel. Eventually, the Romulans will remove the weapons. 
KIRA: When? Are we talking about days, weeks, months? 
ROSS: I don't know but it will happen. 
KIRA: Now you sound like a politician, Admiral. 
ROSS: Maybe so. But facts are facts, Colonel. And there's no way the Bajorans can drive the Romulans off Derna, not without help anyway, and the Federation isn't going to provide that help. Not now. Is that clear? 
KIRA: We're just not as important to the war effort as the Romulans. 
ROSS: That's a harsh way to put it. 
KIRA: The truth often is. 
ROSS: Colonel, I would like to help you, but my hands are tied. 
KIRA: Well, luckily, mine aren't. 
ROSS: Meaning what? 
KIRA: Our scans show that the weapons aren't fully operational yet. They're still missing launch sequencers. I'm going to make sure that those sequencers never reach Derna. 
ROSS: How? 
KIRA: I'm going to set up a blockade. 
ROSS: If you do that, Colonel, you'll have a fight on your hands. A fight you can't win. 
[Runabout]
(In orbit of a brown, dry looking planet.) 
SISKO: We're entering orbit. Prepare to beam down. 
JAKE: Why don't we use the ship's scanners to find the Orb? 
EZRI: There's too much ionisation in the atmosphere. It'll interfere with our sensors. 
SISKO: You sure you don't want to stay here and wait for us? 
JOSEPH: And miss all the excitement? Not a chance. 
SISKO: All right. Well sure you're carrying plenty of water packs. That goes for both of you, too. It's dry down there. 
NURSE [OC]: Doctor Wykoff, please report to Isolation Ward Four. Doctor Wykoff, please report to Isolation Ward Four. 
SISKO: Did you hear that? 
EZRI: Hear what? 
SISKO: Forget it. 
[Desert]
(The landing party is sensibly dressed in loose, light coloured clothing with hooded coats.) 
EZRI: If there is an Orb buried around here, my tricorder's not picking it up. 
SISKO: I know it's out there someplace. That's why the Prophets sent me here. 
EZRI: Did they give you any hint which way to go? 
SISKO: That way. 
JAKE: The Prophets have spoken. 
EZRI: I hope he heard them right. 
[Klingon bridge]
O'BRIEN: Once we're close enough, we can fire an EM pulse at the sun. 
QUARK: The sun? I thought we were trying to destroy a shipyard. 
O'BRIEN: We are. 
QUARK: Do you understand what he's talking about? 
BASHIR: Always. 
QUARK: Fine, then you explain it. 
WORF: We are going to fly toward the molten heart of the sun, so close that our ship will glow like a flaming comet. 
BASHIR: Hopefully not that close. 
O'BRIEN: Just close enough to trigger a solar plasma ejection. The explosion should be enough to incinerate everything within a hundred million kilometres. 
MARTOK: Including the shipyard. 
WORF: It will be a glorious firestorm that will illuminate the gates of Sto-vo-kor itself and provide a fitting welcome for Jadzia. 
QUARK: The things we do for love. Did you see that? 
O'BRIEN: See what? 
QUARK: The way he glared at me. 
BASHIR: He always glares at you. 
QUARK: Well I'm sick of it. We're risking our lives to help Jadzia get into Sto-vo-kor. The very least Worf could do is show us some appreciation. Is it so hard to say thank you? 
BASHIR: Thank you. 
QUARK: Nice try, Doctor, but I want to hear it from him. 
O'BRIEN: Don't do this, Quark. 
QUARK: Do what? All I'm asking for is two little words. 
WORF: Be quiet. 
QUARK: That's two words all right. Just not the two I was hoping for. 
WORF: Why should I feel any gratitude toward you? I owe you nothing. You are not here to help Jadzia get into Sto-vo-kor. You are here because you wish to convince yourselves that you were worthy of her. But the truth is, none of you could ever hope to be worthy of her or even understand the kind of woman she was. It is you who should be thanking me, Ferengi, for allowing you to come on this mission and pay honour to her memory. 
[Desert]
EZRI: Think we're getting close? 
SISKO: I have no idea. 
EZRI: But we're headed in the right direction? 
SISKO: I hope so. 
EZRI: Audrid loved to walk. Of course, she preferred the woods. Nice shady glens, cool breezes, cold streams. 
SISKO: Dax, what are you trying to say? 
EZRI: We've been keeping a pretty fast pace. It might be a good idea to give your father and Jake a chance to rest. 
SISKO: If anyone wants to take a break, they can go back to the runabout. 
EZRI: I think we should stick together. 
SISKO: Hey, Dad? How're you doing back there? 
JOSEPH: (gasping) Never better. 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: It's only a matter of time until we break through enemy lines. When that happens, we can drive the Federation Romulan Alliance out of Cardassian territory. A bit more kanar? 
SIANA: (a Cardassian woman) Please. 
DAMAR: To victory. On all fronts. 
(Weyoun enters.) 
WEYOUN: Damar, have you 
DAMAR: Weyoun, this is Siana. We met at the dinner last night honouring Legate Hovas. 
WEYOUN: Damar, you and I have things to discuss. Things that your guest doesn't want to hear. 
DAMAR: And why is that? 
WEYOUN: Because if she does, I'll be forced to have her executed. 
SIANA: I really should be going. 
DAMAR: Until tonight. 
(Siana leaves.) 
WEYOUN: What a pleasant woman. Now, it's imperative we increase production at the Monac shipyard. We need more assault ships to retake the Chin'toka system. Damar, are you listening to me? 
DAMAR: Increase production. Yes, I heard you. By how much? 
WEYOUN: Fifteen percent would be ideal. 
DAMAR: That won't be easy. 
WEYOUN: Oh, I'm sure you'll find a way. You're very resourceful. 
[Kira's quarters]
ODO: A blockade? How many ships are we talking about? 
KIRA: Twelve impulse ships. That's all the Council of Ministers could spare right now. 
ODO: And how effective do you think those twelve ships are going to be against even one Romulan warbird? 
KIRA: You sound like Admiral Ross. 
ODO: Well, I was hoping our relationship was going to be a long and happy one, but I suppose I'm willing to settle for short and exciting. 
KIRA: What's that supposed to mean? 
ODO: I take it you're going to be commanding the blockade? 
KIRA: That's right. 
ODO: Then I'm going to be there with you. 
KIRA: You don't have to do that. 
ODO: Yes, I do. 
KIRA: Well, I wouldn't start writing our epitaphs just yet. 
ODO: All right, I'll wait until the first wave of Romulan ships decide to run the blockade. 
KIRA: Don't worry, I've no intention of getting into a firefight with a squadron of Romulan warbirds. 
ODO: You mean you're bluffing? 
KIRA: If the Romulans fire on us, they jeopardise their Alliance with the Federation, and I'm hoping that's a risk they don't want to take. 
ODO: And I'm hoping they don't call your bluff. 
[Desert]
(Going up a sandy incline.) 
JAKE: Grandpa, you sure you don't want to go back up to the runabout? 
JOSEPH: We started this together and we'll finish it together. I owe it to Ben. 
(On a steeper slope, Joseph stumbles.) 
JAKE: I got you. 
(Near the top, under two midday suns, Sisko takes off his backpack and just keeps the shovel and baseball. Ezri picks up the water pouches. Jake and Joseph are so far behind they've lost sight of Sisko and Ezri.) 
JAKE: Let's go. 
(Sisko walks down a slope by some rocks.) 
NURSE [OC]: Doctor Wykoff, please come to Isolation Ward Four immediately. To Isolation Ward Four. Doctor Wykoff. Doctor Wykoff. Please come to Isolation Ward Four immediately. 
EZRI: Benjamin? Benjamin. Is this it? 
SISKO: I think so. 
EZRI: You're not sure? Ben, that's not good enough. Ben. 
(She takes the baseball and throws it away.) 
EZRI: Are you listening to me? 
(Sisko remembers seeing the ball rolling off the piano in the restaurant.) 
SISKO: There. 
EZRI: Where? 
SISKO: That's where we start digging. 
(Where the baseball landed.) 
EZRI: Why there? I wasn't even aiming at anything. Ben, maybe my memories are playing tricks on me but have you gotten stranger? 
KIRA [OC]: Ship's log, stardate 52152.6. We've set up a blockade around Derna. So far, no Romulan ships have tried to challenge us. 
[Bajoran ship bridge]
KIRA: Kiss Me Deadly. Interesting title. 
ODO: And the book isn't bad either. I think you'll enjoy it. 
KIRA: I'm sure I will, but is this really the right time to start reading a book? 
ODO: Maybe not, but I know how much you hate all this waiting and Mike Hammer has certain qualities I think you'll appreciate. 
KIRA: Such as? 
ODO: He's as tough as they come and he hates waiting almost as much as you do. 
KIRA: Oh, I like him already. 
CREWMAN: Colonel, there's a priority one transmission from Deep Space Nine. It's Admiral Ross. 
KIRA: Put him through. 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: Colonel Senator Cretak has just informed me that fourteen Romulan warbirds are on their way to Derna. 
CRETAK [on viewscreen]: They'll be arriving in eight hours with much needed medical supplies for the hospital complex. 
KIRA: Since when did the Romulans start using warbirds to deliver medical supplies? 
CRETAK [on viewscreen]: We want to make sure they arrive safely. 
KIRA: Well, if they try to get through the blockade, they're not going to make it at all. 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: That kind of talk isn't going to help matters, Colonel. I'd think you'd want to avoid a confrontation, not provoke one. 
KIRA: I wouldn't call those Romulan ships a peace offering. 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: I wasn't exactly happy to hear about that either, but we only have a few hours to reach some kind of a compromise. After that, people are going to start dying. 
KIRA: You can talk about compromise all you want. Any ship attempting to break through that blockade will be fired on. 
CRETAK [on viewscreen]: Colonel, do you seriously believe that your antiquated collection of impulse ships stand a chance against our warbirds? 
KIRA: We'll find out soon enough, won't we? End transmission. How'd I do? 
ODO: Mike Hammer would have been proud. 
[Wardroom]
CRETAK: You're concerned. 
ROSS: Aren't you? 
CRETAK: Not really. The Colonel is brave woman, but she's not stupid. She's bluffing. 
[Desert]
(Jake and Joseph have finally arrived at Sisko's dig site.) 
JAKE: Right over there in the shade. 
(Ezri brings water packs.) 
EZRI: Here. 
JAKE: There you go, Grandpa. 
NURSE [OC]: Doctor Wykoff, please come to Isolation Ward Four. Doctor Wykoff to Isolation Ward Four. 
SISKO: I wish he'd get there. 
EZRI: Who? 
SISKO: Doctor Wykoff. They're waiting for him in the isolation ward. 
EZRI: You have definitely gotten stranger. 
[Klingon bridge]
MARTOK: What about me, Worf? Would you rather I hadn't come on this mission either? 
WORF: That is not what I am saying. With you, it is different. You are a Klingon and Jadzia was a member of your House. 
MARTOK: And these men were her friends. They honour her with their presence. 
(The non-Klingons enter.) 
QUARK: I don't believe it. Gagh for breakfast, gagh for lunch, gagh for dinner. Am I the only one who thinks Klingon menus need to have more variety? 
O'BRIEN: You want to complain about the gagh, that's fine with me. But don't complain about it when we're in the mess hall sitting at a table surrounded by a dozen Klingons. 
QUARK: All right, all right, I get the point. 
BASHIR: Good. 
QUARK: But I'm telling you, I think some of those Klingons agreed with me. 
BASHIR: Look, Worf, if this has anything to do with what just happened in the mess hall. 
WORF: No, no, it does not. 
QUARK: What's the matter? Come up with a few more insults to throw at us? 
WORF: I wish to apologize. 
QUARK: I'm listening. 
WORF: I know Jadzia meant a great deal to all of you, and you meant a great deal to her. Many times, when we discussed our day, she would repeat something amusing that you had told her, or describe in endless details the intricacies of some new scheme of yours. She often talked about all of you. It seemed as though that even when we were alone, one of you was always with us. 
QUARK: I get it. You were jealous because she liked us better than you. 
BASHIR: Quark, would you please keep quiet. 
WORF: She was my wife, my par'machkai. I did not like having to share her affections. 
O'BRIEN: That's why you didn't want us on this mission with you. You wanted to get her into Sto-vo-kor without our help. 
WORF: I wanted it to be my gift to her. 
QUARK: Go on. 
WORF: There is nothing more to say. Except that I am pleased you're here. 
O'BRIEN: I have never heard Worf apologise to anyone. 
QUARK: I don't know about you, but I was hoping for something a little more intriguing. 
BASHIR: Such as? 
QUARK: You know, like Jadzia used to call my name out when she slept, or wanted to name her first child after me. 
MARTOK: Chief. The Monac shipyard. 
(A huge collection of metal skeletons that goes on and on.) O'BRIEN: Impressive. 
MARTOK: Display our target. 
QUARK: How close do we have to get to that? 
MARTOK: Too close. 
WORF: Perfect. 
[Desert]
(Dig, dig, thunk!) 
JAKE: What is it, Dad? Have you found something? 
SISKO: Stay back. 
(It certainly looks like an orb box.) 
SISKO: The Orb of the Emissary. 
EZRI: What are you going to do? 
SISKO: Open it. 
WYKOFF [OC]: Mister Russell. 
(Sisko is holding a pencil.) 
WYKOFF [OC]: Mister Russell, put it down. 
EZRI: Benjamin what's wrong? Benjamin. 
[Isolation Ward]
(
Benny Russell
has been writing on the walls of his padded cell); 
WYKOFF: I said, put down the pencil. Put it down, Mister Russell. 
(Played by Casey Biggs, aka Damar.) 
BENNY: But I haven't finished my story yet. Captain Sisko has found the Orb of the Emissary. But he hasn't opened it yet. 
WYKOFF: Mister Russell, you promised not to write on the walls. 
BENNY: No one will give me any paper. 
WYKOFF: I thought we agreed that you weren't going to write at all. That you needed to rest. 
BENNY: No, I don't need to rest. I need to tell my stories. 
WYKOFF: You were doing so well, Benny. Making real progress. We were all so proud of you. 
BENNY: I need to go home. I don't belong here. 
WYKOFF: We're going to send you home as soon as you're well. 
BENNY: I'm fine. 
WYKOFF: But you're not fine. People who are fine don't write on walls. 
BENNY: Then get me a typewriter. 
WYKOFF: You're not listening. The stories have got to stop, Benny. They're too dangerous. 
BENNY: Too dangerous to whom? 
WYKOFF: To you. This world you've created, this Deep Space Nine. Captain Sisko and Kira and the others. None of it is real. 
BENNY: Oh, it is to me. If I don't finish my story, if Captain Sisko doesn't open the Orb box, then he cannot contact the Prophets. 
WYKOFF: It doesn't matter, Benny. The Prophets don't exist either. They're all figments of your imagination. Get rid of them. It's the only way that you're going to get well. Now give me the pencil, Benny. 
BENNY: But my story! 
WYKOFF: It's over. Just let it go. 
[Desert]
(Sisko is sitting with his hands on the box.) 
EZRI: Benjamin, what are you waiting for? Open it. That's why we're here, right? 
JAKE: He can't hear you. 
(Jake puts his hands on his father's and is thrown backwards) 
EZRI: Jake! Jake, are you all right? 
JAKE: Yeah. 
KIRA [OC]: Ship's log, supplemental. Senator Cretak said that the Romulan warbirds would be here in eight hours. She was wrong. They're two hours early. 
[Bajoran ship bridge]
ODO: They'll be in weapons range in eight minutes. 
KIRA: Open a channel. 
CREWMAN: Go ahead. 
KIRA: This is Colonel Kira of the Bajoran Militia. Any ship travelling within transporter range of Derna will be considered hostile and fired upon. 
ODO: They're not responding. 
KIRA: Kira to all Bajoran ships. Prepare to engage. 
CREWMAN: Sir, Admiral Ross is asking to speak to you. 
KIRA: Put him through. 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: Colonel, I'm appealing to you one last time to end this blockade. 
KIRA: You know I can't do that, Admiral. 
CRETAK [on viewscreen]: Be aware that I'm authorised to use whatever force is necessary to see that our medical supplies reach their destination. However, I'm also authorised to seek a negotiated settlement. 
KIRA: My government has made its position quite clear. There are to be no negotiations as long as there are Romulan weapons on Derna. 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: Damn it, Colonel. If you open fire on those ships, we all lose. The only way to beat the Dominion is to keep our Alliance intact. 
CRETAK [on viewscreen]: Besides, I would hate to see you throw your life away. 
KIRA: Your concern is touching, Senator. But I'm not dead yet. End transmission. 
ODO: At least not for another six minutes. 
[Wardroom]
ROSS: You still think she's going to back down? 
CRETAK: She has to, because I won't. 
[Klingon bridge]
(The viewscreen is full of big glowing fusion reactor.) 
QUARK: Take me out of the oven, Moogie. I'm cooked. 
O'BRIEN: General, I've found it. A magnetic instability near the sun's equator. 
BASHIR: Excellent. Now, let's trigger that solar ejection and get out of here. 
O'BRIEN: I'm afraid it's not that simple. We have to make sure the ejection has the right trajectory to destroy the shipyard. 
MARTOK: Well, how do we do that? 
WORF: We have to get closer. Much closer. 
O'BRIEN: He's right. 
QUARK: Sto-vo-kor, here we come. 
[Isolation Ward]
(The doctor is offering Benny a roller of white paint.) 
WYKOFF: Take it, Benny. 
BENNY: What for? 
WYKOFF: I'm offering you an opportunity few people ever get. You can wipe away all your mistakes. 
BENNY: You want me to paint over my story? 
WYKOFF: They're only words. Meaningless words that no one cares about. Get rid of them and you can walk out of here a free man. 
(The last line on the wall says 'Sisko reaches for the Orb box and ) 
WYKOFF: Go ahead. Save yourself. 
(Benny holds the paint roller close to the writing.) 
[Desert]
EZRI: Ben? 
SISKO: Got to cover it up. Bury it. 
EZRI: Ben, what are you doing? 
[Isolation Ward]
WYKOFF: It's for your own good, Benny. Wipe away the words. Destroy them before they destroy you. 
[Desert]
EZRI: Ben, stop. 
[Bajoran ship bridge]
ODO: The Romulans have powered their weapons. I think they're calling your bluff. 
KIRA: Auxiliary power to forward shields. Kira to all ships. Hold your positions. 
ODO: Nerys, if you're going to end this, I suggest you do it now. 
[Wardroom]
ROSS: Time to fold, Colonel. 
[Klingon bridge]
(The consoles are hot enough to fry eggs.) 
O'BRIEN: Damn it. We're ready, General. 
MARTOK: Decloak and prepare to fire on Worf's command. 
WORF: Fire! 
(Energy streaks from the ship's belly to the sun's surface.) 
MARTOK: It didn't work. 
QUARK: Oh well, we tried. Time to go. 
WORF: No. Not until we complete our mission. 
O'BRIEN: We'll have to increase the magnetic gradient. I'll recalibrate the deflector. 
BASHIR: We might not have time. There are three Jem'Hadar ships are approaching bearing zero zero five mark one nine zero. 
MARTOK: I suggest you work quickly, Chief. 
[Desert]
Sisko raises his shovel to smash down on the box.) 
EZRI: No! 
SISKO: Get out of my way. 
EZRI: Ben, you came here to find the Prophets, remember? 
SISKO: Move! 
EZRI: No, listen to me. You promised Jadzia you would make things right. Well now is your chance. Open the box, Ben. 
(Sisko raises the shovel, Benny holds the roller. They both drop them.) 
[Isolation Ward]
WYKOFF: No! 
(Benny punches Wykoff and the male nurse, picks up his pencil and writes 'Opens it.') 
[Desert]
(Sisko obeys. The glow of the crystal orb shoots of into space, then) 
[Limbo]
(Sisko watches the energy shoots past DS9 and WHOOSH! the wormhole reopens.) 
[Bajoran ship bridge]
ODO: Do we stand down, Colonel? 
CREWMAN: Sir, we're getting a transmission from Deep Space Nine. The wormhole. It's back! 
KIRA: On screen. 
ODO: Nerys? 
(Red energy comes out of the wormhole and explodes.) 
KIRA: Open a channel to all Bajoran ships. Hold your position and prepare to fire on my command. Lock targets. 
CREWMAN: Targets locked. 
KIRA: Still glad you came along? 
ODO: I wouldn't have missed it for anything. 
[Wardroom]
CRETAK: I'm afraid the Colonel has run out of time. 
[Klingon bridge]
(Battle is joined with the Jem'Hadar.) 
MARTOK: Well, Worf, did I not promise you a glorious battle? 
WORF: It is everything I hoped for. 
O'BRIEN: EM pulse ready, General. 
QUARK: Then what are you waiting for? Fire! 
MARTOK: By all means, Chief. Fire! 
(A ball of plasma builds on the sun's surface.) 
BASHIR: It's working. 
QUARK: Great. Now can we leave? 
WORF: Full impulse. 
(The bird of prey flees ahead of the solar ejection which takes out the Jem'Hadar and then the shipyard.) 
MARTOK: Qapla'! 
QUARK: I hope Jadzia appreciates all this. 
BASHIR: I'm sure she does. 
WORF: Lohm Ict lihj. posh Machh lodge Sto-vo-kor Jadzia Dax pailodge pah dock Lih Dun. Shoo vwee vahm baht leh paolodge. Pailodge Poh Hokh Vahd Sto-vo-kor. 
[Bajoran bridge]
ODO: Nerys, they're pulling back. 
CREWMAN: Colonel, Admiral Ross would like to speak with you. 
KIRA: Put him through. 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: You can blink now, Colonel. You've won. Senator Cretak has agreed to remove the weapons from Derna. 
KIRA: What changed her mind? 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: I told her if she didn't remove them, I would. 
KIRA: And what changed your mind? 
ROSS [on viewscreen]: You did. Remind me never to play poker with you. 
[Limbo]
SISKO: Show yourselves. I've come to speak with you. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(The baseball rolls off the piano and is picked up by) 
SARAH: The Sisko has completed his task. 
SISKO: Sarah? 
SARAH: The Kosst Amojan no longer threatens us. 
SISKO: You mean the Pah wraith? It's no longer in the wormhole? 
SARAH: I have cast it out. 
SISKO: Is that why the Prophets sent me to Tyree? To release you from the Orb? 
SARAH: The Kosst Amojan tried to stop you with a false vision. But you did not waver. You fulfilled your destiny. 
SISKO: My destiny? You talk as if my life was over. 
SARAH: The Sisko must still face many tasks. 
SISKO: I don't suppose you'll tell me what they are. 
[Sisko's restaurant - alley]
SARAH: The Emissary is corporeal. Linear. 
SISKO: Linear or not, I need some answers. 
SARAH: The Sisko is intrusive. 
SISKO: Are you Sarah Sisko? Are you my mother? 
SARAH: Sarah Sisko was corporeal. For a time, I shared her existence. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
SISKO: You took over her body, made sure she married my father so that she'd give birth to me. 
SARAH: The Sisko is necessary. 
SISKO: And once you didn't need her anymore, you left her. No wonder she walked out on my father. She didn't chose him, you did. 
SARAH: The Sisko would prefer different answers. 
SISKO: What you're telling me isn't easy to accept. You arranged my birth. I exist because of you? 
SARAH: The Sisko's path is a difficult one. 
SISKO: But why me? Why did it have to be me? 
SARAH: Because it could be no one else. 
[Desert]
(Sisko closes the Orb box.) 
EZRI: Benjamin? That must have been some Orb experience. 
SISKO: I'll tell you about it someday. 
[Promenade]
(Sisko, Ezri and Jake come out of the airlock to a happy crowd.) 
WORF: Welcome back, Captain. 
O'BRIEN: We missed you, sir. 
KIRA: Thank you for bringing the Prophets back to us. 
SISKO: I heard you've all been pretty busy yourselves. 
EZRI: Odo! Nerys! Julian! It's so good to see you. Worf, we need to talk. 
BASHIR: Who's that? 
JAKE: It's Dax. 
WORF: Dax? 
JAKE: That's right, Ezri Dax. Incredible, isn't it? 
WORF: It cannot be. 
QUARK: She's so much shorter. 
ODO: Just when you thought things couldn't get more interesting. 

