Episode Number: 570
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Changing Face of Evil
The Changing Face of Evil
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 26 Apr, 1999
[Airlock]
(The escapees are greeted by Bashir and O'Brien.) 
O'BRIEN: Hey! Welcome! Well, I for one never doubted you'd be back. 
BASHIR: Neither did I. 
O'BRIEN: Don't believe him. He was Mister Doom and Gloom the entire time you were gone. 
BASHIR: Well, I must admit I was a bit concerned. 
O'BRIEN: We were all concerned. Your well being was a constant source of conversation and speculation. 
EZRI: You see, I told you they'd miss us. So, who won the betting pool? 
BASHIR: Morn. He managed to guess the day when you'd be back. Only missed the time of your arrival by two hours. 
O'BRIEN: He's amazing. 
BASHIR: I don't know how he does it. 
(Sisko joins them.) 
SISKO: Mister Worf. 
WORF: Captain. 
EZRI: I know what you're going to say, and the answer is yes, I did leave the station without your permission, and yes, I lost a runabout, but 
SISKO: We'll evaluate your actions later, old man. Right now I'd like to know everything you've learned about this Breen Dominion alliance. 
WORF: I'm afraid we have very little information to share with you, Captain. 
EZRI: Weyoun and the others were more interested in asking questions than they were answering them. 
SISKO: Why do you think Damar decided to help you escape? 
EZRI: I'm not sure, but I can tell you one thing. He hates Weyoun. 
WORF: The Cardassians are a proud people, but the Dominion treats them like second class citizens. 
EZRI: I think Damar is worried that this new alliance with the Breen is going to weaken Cardassia's status with the Dominion even more. But whatever his reasons, we owe him our lives. 
SISKO: Maybe one day you'll be able to return the favour. Doctor, I'd like a complete medical workup on both of them. 
BASHIR: I can't tell you how glad I am to see you again. Er, both, both, both of you. 
KIRA [OC]: Kira to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
KIRA [OC]: We just received a priority one transmission from Starfleet Command. The Breen have attacked Earth. 
[Captain's office]
(On the monitor we see that Starfleet HQ is a wreck and the Golden Gate Bridge has a big hole in the middle.) 
SISKO: I had a lot of friends in those buildings. Starfleet was able to destroy most of the Breen attack force, but by then most of the damage had been done. 
MARTOK: We must give the enemy credit. To launch an attack against Starfleet Headquarters. Even my people never attempted that. We've learned one thing about the Breen today, Captain. They're a race of warriors. 
SISKO: That's about all we know. Our intelligence reports are sketchy at best. 
MARTOK: Captain, every species has its weakness. They're no exception. 
SISKO: Let's hope you're right. But whatever the weakness is, we'd better find it soon. 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN: There. Do you see that? The news from Earth keeps getting better. The Federation casualty report are being revised upward once again. 
GOR: (electronic noise) 
WEYOUN: Well put. The casualties are merely a bonus. What matters is that we have struck fear into the hearts of our enemy and made them feel weak and vulnerable. General, please congratulate your troops for us. They've done a superb job. Don't you agree, Damar? 
DAMAR: Superb. 
GOR: (electronic noise) 
DAMAR: It's unfortunate that so few of your ships survived the assault. 
WEYOUN: Leave it to you, Damar, to point out the one cloud in the sky. 
GOR: (electronic noise) 
WEYOUN: My thought exactly. It is a very small price for such an important victory. Now, if you'll excuse me, I must make my report to the Founder. 
(Weyoun leaves.) 
DAMAR: By the way, in case Weyoun has neglected to mention it, the Dominion once sang Cardassia's praises as well. 
GOR: (electronic noise) 
DAMAR: It's really quite simple. They expected the war to be over long ago. It's not. For that, they blame us. Now, if the war isn't ended soon, they'll shift the blame to you. 
GOR: (electronic noise) 
DAMAR: Maybe so, but win or lose, I wouldn't turn my back on Weyoun if I were you. 
[Sisko's quarters]
(Dinner has been thoroughly burnt.) 
SISKO: Kasidy, what happened? 
KASIDY: That's what I'm trying to find out. 
SISKO: What are you doing? You don't cook. 
KASIDY: I know. I was just making sure. 
SISKO: My peppers? 
KASIDY: I know how you like roasted peppers in your casserole. 
SISKO: It took me three months to grow them. No one touches my peppers. 
KASIDY: I'm so sorry. With all the bad news about Earth I wanted to do something nice for you. But from now on, you wear the apron in the family. 
SISKO: That's a good idea. 
KASIDY: I'm glad you're not mad. I wouldn't want anything to ruin our last few nights together. 
SISKO: Our last few nights together? 
KASIDY: My cargo run. I leave early next week. 
SISKO: No, you're not going anywhere. It's too dangerous. 
KASIDY: Ben, the Breen attacked Earth. That's not exactly next door. 
SISKO: We don't know where they're going to attack next. I would feel if you were closer to me. 
KASIDY: Well, that's sweet. But I'm going anyway. 
SISKO: I can't talk you out of it? 
KASIDY: Not a chance. 
[Damar's quarters]
DAMAR: Enter. 
(A Gul enters with a PADD) 
RUSOT: The information you requested. 
DAMAR: Excellent. Sit down. 
RUSOT: I'm not sure it's wise for me to stay. What if the Vorta decides to pay you a visit? 
DAMAR: And what if he does? He'll see me conferring with one of my officers. There's nothing suspicious about that. 
(Rusot pours himself a glass of kanar.) 
RUSOT: It doesn't seem right all, this plotting and secrecy. What are we? Romulans? 
(Damar refuses a drink) 
DAMAR: No, we're Cardassians. But right now, Cardassia is an occupied territory. And to defeat an occupying army takes careful planning and secrecy. 
RUSOT: Can we really hope to defeat the Dominion? With the Breen on their side, they're stronger than ever. 
DAMAR: But we will be fighting to win back our homes and our freedom, and that will make us even stronger. 
RUSOT: I remember the day I heard the news that Cardassia had joined the Dominion. Like everyone else, I rejoiced. We were going to be rulers of the entire Alpha Quadrant. Instead, we're a conquered people, servants in our own land. 
DAMAR: All that will soon end. Now, are you sure we can trust these officers? 
RUSOT: And the troops under their command. Still, it's not a very long list, is it? 
DAMAR: It'll get longer. With a victory or two all Cardassia will rise up with us. 
RUSOT: We'll need to know the exact location of the Dominion weapon emplacements on Rondac Three. 
DAMAR: Leave that to me. Now, I want you to get a message to every one of these officers. 
[Winn's office]
SOLBOR: Regarding your scheduled retreat to the Calash monastery? 
WINN: Cancel it. 
SOLBOR: Very good. Now, about your appearance before the Vedek Assembly. 
WINN: Cancel that too. 
SOLBOR: Cancel an appearance before the Vedek Assembly? 
WINN: Just do it. Cancel everything. 
SOLBOR: As you wish. May I ask what exactly you will be doing? 
WINN: You certainly may not. But if you must know, I'll be devoting most of my time to study and meditation. 
(Enter Dukat.) 
SOLBOR: I see. 
DUKAT: Solbor, I'll have my breakfast on the balcony this morning. Eminence, is there anything you would like? 
WINN: I'm not hungry. 
DUKAT: But you really should eat. After all, Bajor is only as strong as its Kai. 
WINN: I said I'm not hungry. Do as he asks. And please, write a note to the Vedeks expressing my apologies for having to postpone our meeting. 
SOLBOR: I'll see to it immediately. 
(Solbor leaves.) 
DUKAT: What a tiresome little man. 
WINN: Sometimes I think you forget your place, Anjohl. 
DUKAT: Oh, forgive me if I've offended you in any way. I am but a moon made warm by the light of your sun. 
WINN: I hope you're a better farmer than you are a poet. 
DUKAT: Something is wrong. Tell me, what's bothering you? 
WINN: Everything! The prayers, the rituals, these robes. I can't keep pretending I follow the path of the Prophets. 
DUKAT: You won't have to. The Pah wraiths are waiting to embrace you. 
WINN: So you keep saying, but when is that going to happen? 
DUKAT: As soon as we release them from the fire caves. 
WINN: Release them? But the prophecies. 
DUKAT: What about them? 
WINN: They warn that the release of the Pah wraiths will mean the end of Bajor. 
DUKAT: The old Bajor, perhaps. But from its ashes a new Bajor will arise and the Restoration will begin. 
WINN: Who will be left to see it? 
DUKAT: Those the gods find worthy. It will be the dawn of paradise. And you, Adami, are destined to rule it. 
WINN: You're sure of that? 
DUKAT: It is meant to be. 
WINN: And what will become of you? 
DUKAT: I will be at your side for as long as you need me. But first, we have to release the Pah wraiths. 
WINN: How do we do that? 
DUKAT: The answer is in the text of the Kosst Amojan. 
WINN: Oh. It is forbidden for anyone to open that book. 
DUKAT: Yes. Anyone except the Kai. 
WINN: It is said to contain great evil. 
DUKAT: You have nothing to fear. I'll be right there with you. 
WINN: Did I say I was afraid? 
[Quark's]
(It's a large, very detailed model of the Alamo.) 
BASHIR: Right here. This palisade in the south wall. If only we could make this part of the compound less vulnerable. 
O'BRIEN: What are you talking about? The south wall isn't the problem. They came over the north wall, by Travis's position. 
BASHIR: I know where they came over, Miles. I am Travis, remember? And I say we strengthen the south wall, the north wall, and any other place that helps us keep the enemy out. 
O'BRIEN: But then it wouldn't be the battle of the Alamo, would it. 
BASHIR: I don't care. I just want to win, once. 
O'BRIEN: Be Santa Anna. He wins every time. 
BASHIR: What if we put cannons along the long barracks like this? 
(Quark nearly puts drinks in the courtyard.) 
O'BRIEN: Hey, hey, what do you think you're doing? Do you know how long it took me to build this thing? 
QUARK: I don't believe the two of you. Your homeworld has been attacked, the Breen have joined forces with the Dominion, and here you are calmly playing games. 
BASHIR: Haven't you ever heard of grace under pressure, Quark? 
QUARK: Shouldn't you be doing something more productive? 
O'BRIEN: I just spent fourteen hours recalibrating the station's weapons array. 
BASHIR: And I just did a complete run through of the emergency support team protocols. 
QUARK: So, you do expect an attack on the station? 
BASHIR: Anything's possible. What about a moat? 
O'BRIEN: A moat? Around the Alamo? 
BASHIR: Yes, here, look, we could widen this stream, maybe make it a little deeper. 
QUARK: I say we build a moat around the station. 
[Quark's cafe]
(Looking down on the Alamo.) 
WORF: He is a child. 
EZRI: Miles does have a certain cherubic quality. 
WORF: I was talking about Doctor Bashir, and you know it. Are you certain he's the one? 
EZRI: I'm not certain about anything. But he is handsome. 
WORF: You deserve more than handsome. He gets excited playing with toys. 
EZRI: He knows how to have a good time. Besides, it's not exactly a toy. You heard the Chief. He spent hours making that. 
WORF: I see it is hopeless to try to reason with you. 
EZRI: I know. Maybe I am in love with him. Do you think I should tell him how I feel? 
WORF: If it will make you happy, yes. 
EZRI: You're a good friend, Worf. 
WORF: I know. They are wasting their time. No matter how much planning they do, there is no way that they can defend that mission against an enemy that numbers in the thousands. Not without more men. 
EZRI: You know, if you want to go down there and help them. (gets a Look) Just a thought. 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN: Damar. You're up early. 
(Damar changes the display on his console.) 
DAMAR: Am I? 
WEYOUN: Yes, you are. Or you haven't been to bed yet. 
DAMAR: Actually, I had a very restful sleep. 
WEYOUN: Did you? How nice. 
DAMAR: I had no idea the Breen could mobilise such a large fleet so quickly. 
WEYOUN: Our new allies are full of surprises, aren't they? You know those refrigeration suits they wear? 
DAMAR: What about them? 
WEYOUN: I'm sure you've read the intelligence reports that say that their homeworld is a frozen wasteland. Well, it's not. The climate on their planet is quite comfortable. 
DAMAR: Then why do they wear refrigeration suits? 
WEYOUN: They won't say. You see what I mean? They're full of surprises. There's something different about you today, Damar. I can't quite put my finger on it. It's almost as if you're only half dressed. 
DAMAR: What are you talking about? 
WEYOUN: You don't have a bottle in your hand. 
DAMAR: Don't you have anything better to do than to stand here and 
WEYOUN: You've regained your confidence. 
DAMAR: I wasn't aware that I'd lost it. 
WEYOUN: Come now, Damar, you thought you'd backed the wrong side. You thought the Dominion was going to lose this war and drag Cardassia down with it. 
DAMAR: I must admit, things were looking rather grim. 
WEYOUN: Perhaps, for a moment or two, but that's no excuse to lose faith in oneself or one's allies. But now it's as if you've groped your way through a dark tunnel and stepped back out into the light once again. You know what that light's told you? That the Dominion will prevail. That the Federation will be conquered and a new era of peace and prosperity will blanket the Alpha Quadrant. 
DAMAR: You know me so well. 
WEYOUN: Really, Damar, I hope you won't allow that Cardassian sized ego of yours to spoil our victory. And I do mean our victory. Yours, mine.
DAMAR: And the Breen. 
WEYOUN: Yes, and the Breen. 
DAMAR: We're just one big, happy family, aren't we? 
WEYOUN: I like it so much better when we agree, don't you? 
[Winn's office]
(Solbor brings in an old tome wrapped in a cloth.) 
SOLBOR: The text of the Kosst Amojan, as you requested 
WINN: Very good. Well? Put it on my desk. 
SOLBOR: Eminence, may I speak frankly? 
WINN: If you must. 
SOLBOR: This book has not been removed from the archives, not for seven hundred years. 
WINN: Your point being? 
SOLBOR: The knowledge it contains about the Pah wraiths, it is said to be very dangerous. 
WINN: Knowledge is never dangerous in the right hands. 
SOLBOR: There is an old saying. He who studies evil, is studied by evil. 
WINN: I will keep that in mind. Now give me the book. 
DUKAT: Your concern for her Eminence is appreciated and acknowledged. Nevertheless, you must do as she says. I will see to it that no harm comes to her. 
WINN: There. That should make you feel better. 
SOLBOR: I wish it could. But this man. One day he comes onto Deep Space Nine and the next, he's become your closest advisor. What do we know of him? Where did he come from? What does he want? 
DUKAT: I want only to serve the Kai. 
SOLBOR: This is his idea, isn't it? To study this hateful book. 
WINN: Anjohl was sent to me by the Prophets. That's all I need to know, and that's all anyone needs to know. 
DUKAT: I have no idea why I was chosen. But who are we to question the ways of the Prophets? 
WINN: Perhaps you should go to the Temple and ask the Prophets forgiveness for questioning their wisdom. 
(Solbor puts the tome down and leaves.) 
DUKAT: Solbor does not approve of me. 
WINN: He has served me well for many years. 
DUKAT: And he may serve you well for many more if the Pah wraiths find him worthy. Well? Aren't you going to open it? The Pah wraiths are not evil, but they are powerful. And they're willing to share their power with you. The question is, do you want it? 
(Winn unwraps the tome.) 
DUKAT: Yes. 
(She takes the key and unlocks the elaborately embossed cover. The parchment pages are stained with age, and blank.) 
DUKAT: This can't be. This is a trick. 
WINN: It's not a trick. 
DUKAT: Then Solbor brought the wrong book. 
WINN: He doesn't make those kinds of mistakes. The words are here. They're just hidden, that's all. It's up to us to find them. 
[Security office]
ODO: These are the new security protocols you requested. 
SISKO: Very good. 
ODO: Although frankly I'm not sure how effective they'll be against the Breen. 
SISKO: Neither am I. I just hope we don't have to find out. 
KASIDY: Benjamin! Do you mind explaining this? 
(She gives him a PADD) 
SISKO: Constable, do you mind if we use your office a moment? 
ODO: Not at all. 
(Odo leaves.) 
SISKO: Well, it looks like the Bajoran Freight and Shipping Authority wants you to take a vacation. 
KASIDY: A month's paid vacation? This is your doing, isn't it? Let me guess. The Emissary asked for a little favour. 
SISKO: I never once mentioned the word Emissary. 
KASIDY: But you did arrange this! 
SISKO: I'm just trying to keep you out of harm's way. Is that such a terrible thing for a husband to do? 
KASIDY: I told you, I don't need or want that kind of protection. I want you to call whoever you called and have them put me back on the active list. 
SISKO: Kasidy, it's only for a month. 
KASIDY: I don't care if it's only for a day. How would you like it if I called Admiral Ross and said, oh do me a favour. Please don't send my husband on any dangerous missions this month. 
SISKO: Look, that's not the same thing. 
KASIDY: It is from where I'm standing. My job is just as important to me as your job is to you. 
SISKO: I know that. 
[Promenade]
(Watching the continuing discussion.) 
ODO: What's so funny? 
QUARK: Marriage. It changes everything. If you're not careful that could be you and Kira. 
[Winn's office]
(Winn is consulting other ancient books. Solbor brings in six more.) 
SOLBOR: Here are the other volumes you wanted. 
WINN: Thank you, Solbor. You can go now. 
SOLBOR: Eminence. I must inform you that the archivists are very concerned. 
DUKAT: You heard the Kai. Leave us. 
SOLBOR: They're wondering why you need to consult so many of these dark texts. 
WINN: You may tell them that their Kai works for the good of Bajor. Now leave me. I have work to do. 
(Solbor leaves.) 
WINN: Why are you still here? 
DUKAT: What would you like me to do? 
WINN: Go away. 
DUKAT: I don't understand. 
WINN: I must concentrate. 
DUKAT: But your Eminence. 
WINN: Not another word. 
DUKAT: Very well. 
[Sisko's quarters]
(A bouquet of flowers has been delivered.) 
KASIDY: They're beautiful. 
SISKO: Then you forgive me? 
KASIDY: Ah. That depends. Have you talked to Bajoran Freight and Shipping? 
SISKO: You're back on the active list. 
KASIDY: Then I forgive you. But from here on in 
SISKO: I'm not to interfere with your work unless you tell me to. Or it's absolutely necessary. I'm just joking. 
KASIDY: You'd better be. 
(She kisses him.) 
SISKO: What's that for? 
KASIDY: The flowers. And for being big enough to admit when you're wrong. 
(Doorbell.) 
SISKO: Ah, that must be Quark with the necklace. 
KASIDY: The necklace? 
SISKO: Just in case the flowers didn't work. 
(Sisko opens the door.) 
ROSS: Ben, the Breen have launched a counteroffensive against our forces in the Chin'toka system. 
SISKO: Have they broken through? 
ROSS: In two places. 
SISKO: When do I leave? 
[Bridge]
NOG: This is bad. Very bad. 
KIRA: You say that every time we take the Defiant into battle. 
NOG: Impulse manifold purged and clear. If we lose the Chin'toka system, we lose our only foothold in the Dominion territory. I think that qualifies as bad. 
KIRA: We haven't lost it yet. Initiating impulse pre-start sequence. 
NOG: Microfusion generators online. But the Breen, they seem unstoppable. First Earth, now Chin'toka. 
WORF: Ensign, no one is unstoppable. Collimate the nadion emitters. 
NOG: Collimation sequence in progress. 
(O'Brien and Bashir enter.) 
BASHIR: What more can I say, Miles, but I'm sorry. 
O'BRIEN: Dilithium matrix is aligned and calibrated. Just be a bit more careful. That's all I ask. 
KIRA: Opening antimatter injector ports. Trouble in paradise? 
BASHIR: It was nothing. Emergency life support and damage control systems standing by. 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't call it nothing. 
EZRI: Autonomous guidance system initialised and active.;
O'BRIEN: He lost Travis. 
KIRA: Sounds serious. Verify astrometric database. 
BASHIR: Miles built this Alamo model, replete with little figures. Quite spectacular, actually. Datasets loaded and verified. Anyway, he was showing it to me in Quark's when we, rather I, misplaced Colonel Travis. 
NOG: Phaser safeties engaged. Can't you make another one? 
O'BRIEN: What, so he can lose it again? Field stabilisers online. 
KIRA: That's what happens when you share your toys. Synchronising warp plasma flow. 
O'BRIEN: It's not a toy. It's a model, built to scale. 
BASHIR: He really did a fantastic job. 
O'BRIEN: Nacelles holding at pre-warp threshold. 
BASHIR: Miles, look. 
WORF: He plays with toys. 
EZRI: It's a model. 
WORF: With little figures. 
(Sisko enters.) 
NOG: Captain on the bridge. 
SISKO: Commander. 
WORF: The weapons array is online. Phasers are fully charged. Quantum torpedo launchers are loaded and standing by. 
SISKO: Colonel, set a course to rendezvous with the Federation assault fleet. 
KIRA: Course set. 
SISKO: Take us out. 
KIRA: Airlocks are sealed. Releasing docking clamps. 
[Winn's office]
(Winn has fallen asleep at her desk, so Solbor is quietly gathering up books.) 
[Corridor outside Winn's office]
DUKAT: Where are you going with those? 
SOLBOR: I'm returning these books to the archives. 
DUKAT: On who's authority? 
SOLBOR: I believe her Eminence has finished. 
DUKAT: Put them back. 
SOLBOR: How dare you use that tone with me 
(Dukat knocks Solbor down and picks up the books.) 
DUKAT: I'll put them back. 
[Winn's office]
DUKAT: Wake up, my love. There's work to be done. 
WINN: Anjohl? I must have dozed off. 
DUKAT: You're tired. It's understandable. 
WINN: I haven't made much progress. 
DUKAT: You'll find the answers we're looking for. It's just a matter of time. 
WINN: I'm so glad you're here. 
DUKAT: I'll see that you're brought something to eat. 
[Damar's quarters]
RUSOT: According to the latest battle reports, it looks as if the Dominion is going to retake Chin'toka. 
DAMAR: A few months ago, the thought of the Federation being driven from Cardassian soil would have been a cause for celebration. But the Dominion victories are no longer our victories. 
(Damar takes the kanar bottle from Rusot and puts it down.) 
DAMAR: Now, are our troops in position? 
RUSOT: They're awaiting your command. 
DAMAR: Excellent. We attack in seven hours. 
RUSOT: We're going to lose many fine soldiers. 
DAMAR: At least they will be dying for Cardassia, and not the Dominion. 
[Jem'Hadar Bridge]
WEYOUN: The Federation reinforcements are approaching Chin'toka. 
FOUNDER: The more of them, the better. 
WEYOUN: Founder, it concerns me to have you this close to the front. 
FOUNDER: Your concern is noted. But this is one battle I intend to see first hand. 
WEYOUN: Yes, it should be quite gratifying. 
[Bridge]
VOICE [OC]: Attack wings three and nine have reached the line of deployment. 
VOICE 2 [OC]: Federation fighter squadrons seven and ten break into sections and stand by to begin reconnaissance. 
MARTOK [OC]: Units assume positions. Attack to contact. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, they've locked weapons on us. 
SISKO: All auxiliary power to forward shields. Colonel, attack pattern Delta. 
KIRA: Aye, sir. 
SISKO: Mister Worf, quantum torpedoes. 
WORF: Target locked. 
SISKO: Fire! 
(KABOOM! goes an enemy cruiser.) 
WORF: Target locked. Launchers one and two standing by. 
SISKO: Fire. 
(The enemy gets off an energy bolt just before it goes KaBoom. Electricity dances over Defiant's hull, and inside the bridge. Systems failure 408.) 
O'BRIEN: What the hell's? 
(BOOM) 
KIRA: We've lost power to the helm. 
EZRI: The comm's out. 
WORF: So are weapons. 
BASHIR: Primary computer systems are off line. 
(BOOM) 
KIRA: Manual controls are frozen. 
SISKO: Chief? 
O'BRIEN: I can't get anything back online. Somehow they're draining all our power. 
(BOOM BOOM and Kira is injured.) 
NOG: The fire suppression system's offline. 
WORF: Use the manual extinguishers. 
NOG: I'm on it. 
EZRI: We're venting plasma coolant from over eight separate EPS ruptures. The air's becoming toxic, Captain. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, the ablative armour is starting to buckle. 
WORF: We have hull breaches on decks three and four. 
O'BRIEN: Without power for the emergency forcefields, there's no way to seal them. 
SISKO: Abandon ship. You heard me. Everyone get to the escape pods now! 
(Bashir carries Kira. O'Brien helps up another injured crewman. Sisko takes a last look around.) 
O'BRIEN: Captain. 
SISKO: She's a fine ship. 
O'BRIEN: No one'll argue with that. But like you say, it's time to go. 
(The pods get away just before a final hit makes the Defiant goes KaBOOM.) 
[Jem'Hadar Bridge]
WEYOUN: Poor Captain Sisko. I believe he was quite fond of that ship. Founder, I'm happy to report that the Chin'toka System is ours once again. 
FOUNDER: A step in the right direction. Send my compliments to the Breen. 
WEYOUN: I'm certain that will please them greatly. 
FOUNDER: Really? I have no idea what would please the Breen nor do I care, as long as they fight and win. I will not tolerate defeat any longer. 
WEYOUN: Nor will I. All those escape pods. So small, so vulnerable. I'll order their destruction immediately. 
FOUNDER: No. Let them return to the Federation. Those pods are filled with frightened, demoralised troops. 
WEYOUN: Troops that will spread fear throughout the Federation with tales of what happened here today. The Founder is wise. 
[Winn's office]
(A light meal is finishing.) 
DUKAT: There. Now, don't you feel better? 
WINN: Much. Thank you, Anjohl. 
DUKAT: I'm here to serve you any way I can. 
(Solbor enters.) 
SOLBOR: Get away from her! 
DUKAT: What? 
SOLBOR: Eminence, that man is not Anjohl Tennan. 
WINN: What are you talking about? 
SOLBOR: Anjohl Tennan died nine years ago in the labour camp at Batal. I warned you not to trust him. I had a sample of his DNA sequenced. He's not even a Bajoran. He's a Cardassian. 
DUKAT: We were brought together for a cause, a great cause. Our destinies are linked. 
(Winn starts backing away from Dukat.) 
SOLBOR: Don't listen to him. Look at him. Don't you recognise the face of your enemy? It's Gul Dukat. 
WINN: Oh, it can't be. 
SOLBOR: He lied to you. Used you. 
WINN: It's not true! 
SOLBOR: I don't know why you wanted to do this, for what evil purpose, but it's not going to work! 
DUKAT: He doesn't understand, Adami. He couldn't possibly understand the love of the Pah wraiths. 
SOLBOR: The love of the Pah wraiths? You're trying to release them. That's why you wanted the text of the Kosst Amojan. 
WINN: Solbor, listen to me. All I want is to bring about the Restoration. 
SOLBOR: You betrayed the Prophets. You betrayed us all! 
WINN: Try to understand. The Pah wraiths, they are the true gods. 
SOLBOR: You must be stopped. 
WINN: Solbor, I beg you. No! 
(Winn stabs Solbor in the back with a knife from her tea tray.) 
DUKAT: It's going to be all right. 
WINN: Don't touch me. My life is over. The Pah wraiths sent you to destroy me. 
DUKAT: On the contrary. They sent me to save you. 
WINN: Lies. Nothing but Cardassian lies. To think I let you touch me. The book. I must destroy it! 
(As she reaches for the Kosst Amojan, drops of Solbor's blood fall from the knife onto the open page. It bursts into flames that then vanish to reveal the text.) 
DUKAT: There, you see? The Pah wraiths have judged you and found you worthy. Their secrets are now your secrets to do with as you please. Take their gift and use it. Seize the power they're offering you! 
WINN: What about Solbor? 
DUKAT: I'll take care of the body. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: The Defiant was the finest ship I ever commanded. There'll never be another one like her. 
ROSS: It may take a little while, Ben, but I'll get you another ship, I promise you that. I just wish I knew how we were going to neutralise the Breen energy dissipaters. 
SISKO: We need to buy some time. 
ROSS: Time may be the one thing we don't have. 
KIRA [OC]: Captain. We're monitoring a transmission from Cardassian space. I think you're going to find it interesting. 
Ops]
DAMAR [on viewscreen]: And so two years ago, our government signed a treaty with the Dominion. In it, the Dominion promised to extend Cardassia's influence throughout the Alpha Quadrant. In exchange, we pledged ourselves to join the war against the Federation and its allies. Cardassians have never been afraid of war. A fact we've proven time and again over these past two years. Seven million of our brave soldiers have given their lives to fulfill our part of the agreement. And what has the Dominion done in return? Nothing. 
[Security office]
DAMAR [on monitor]: We've gained no new territories. In fact, our influence throughout the quadrant has diminished. And to make matters worse, we're no longer masters in our own home. Travel anywhere in Cardassia and what do you find? Jem'Hadar 
[Promenade]
DAMAR [on monitor]: Vorta and now Breen. 
[Dominion briefing room]
(The Founder, Weyoun and the Breen are watching too.) 
DAMAR [on monitor]: Instead of the invaders, we have become the invaded. Our allies have conquered us without firing a shot. Well, no longer. This morning, detachments of the Cardassian First, Third, and Ninth Orders attacked Dominion outposts on Rondac Three. 
[Ops]
DAMAR: This assault marks the first step toward the liberation of our homeland 
SISKO: Colonel, see if you can get confirmation on that. 
DAMAR [on monitor]: From the true oppressors of the Alpha Quadrant. 
[Damar's secret HQ]
DAMAR: I call upon Cardassians everywhere. Resist! Resist today. Resist tomorrow! Resist till the last Dominion soldier has been driven 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR [on monitor]: From our soil. 
WEYOUN: It's confirmed. Our cloning facility on Rondac Three have been destroyed. I could be the last Weyoun. That's why he picked that target. 
FOUNDER: I want Damar and the rest of these traitors found and eliminated. 
WEYOUN: I'll see to it immediately. 
(The Founder leaves.) 
WEYOUN: I don't care how many Cardassians you have to kill. Find Damar. Is that clear? 
GOR: (electronic noise) 
WEYOUN: I'm going to hold you to that. 
GOR: (electronic noise) 
[Captain's office]
KIRA: Captain, our listening posts have confirmed the attack on Rondac. 
ROSS: Damar may have just bought us some precious time, if the Dominion doesn't track him down too quickly. 
SISKO: We need to find a way to help him. Legate Damar may be the key to saving the Alpha Quadrant. 

