Episode Number: 498
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Broken Link
Broken Link
Stardate: 49962.4
Original Airdate: 17 Jun, 1996
[Garak's shop]
ODO: You wanted to see me, Garak? 
GARAK: Ah, Constable. How good of you to stop by. 
(Garak glances towards the changing room.) 
ODO: A shoplifter? 
GARAK: Excuse me? 
ODO: Is something wrong? 
AROYA [OC]: Here I come. 
(A Bajoran woman comes out, trying on a new dress.) 
AROYA: What do you think? 
GARAK: A thing of beauty is a joy forever. 
AROYA: Oh, well then, put it on my account. I'll wear it to work. 
GARAK: A splendid idea. Ah, Security Chief Odo, I'd like to introduce you to Chalan Aroya, one of my best customers. 
AROYA: I own the Celestial Cafe, the new Bajoran restaurant overlooking the Promenade. 
ODO: I'm familiar with it. 
AROYA: I watch you walk by every morning when you're on patrol. Oh nine thirty seven. You're very precise. 
ODO: How nice of you to notice. 
AROYA: I was hoping one day you might stop in when you're not working. 
ODO: I don't eat. 
AROYA: I do, and I hate to eat alone. Think about it. Oh, and next time you're on the second level, don't forget to say hello. 
(Aroya leaves) 
ODO: The next time you call me, it'd better be to report a crime. 
GARAK: Now that you mention it, I've just witnessed a crime. Letting Aroya walk out of here without arranging a date. You should be locked away for that. 
ODO: You humanoids. You're all obsessed with these convoluted mating rituals. 
GARAK: True. But do you think we'd waste so much time on something that wasn't worthwhile? I'll never understand you. You're such a sensitive man, yet there are so many aspects of humanoid life that you simply refuse to explore. 
ODO: I have no desire to become a slave to humanoid obsessions. 
GARAK: But you have to admit, she is quite lovely. 
ODO: Well, she is, isn't she? 
(Odo has a dizzy spell.) 
GARAK: Odo, what's wrong? 
ODO: I don't know. 
(Odo fits and goes semi-goo before collapsing completely.) 
GARAK: Garak to Doctor Bashir. I need a medical emergency team sent to my shop immediately. 
[Infirmary]
ODO: Doctor, this is a waste of time. You don't know enough about changeling physiology to diagnose what's wrong with me. No one does. 
BASHIR: Actually, I do have some idea what's going on. I've compared your current medical scans with ones I've made over the last four years and there are noticeable differences. Normally when you're in humanoid form, you have a specific density of one point four which is constant throughout your body. Your mass and density only vary when you change shape. Right now, your mass and density are in a state of fluctuation. 
ODO: Do you know what's causing it? 
BASHIR: No. 
ODO: Well, do you know how to prevent it from happening again? 
BASHIR: Not yet. 
ODO: Then tell me when you do. 
BASHIR: I'm afraid I can't let you leave just yet. Moving seems to increase the fluctuations and may bring on another attack. 
ODO: Are you saying that I have to stay here until you discover a cure? 
BASHIR: Or until the fluctuations stop on their own. For all I know, this could be a normal biological process. The changeling equivalent of puberty, or menopause. 
ODO: That's an interesting theory, Doctor. One I suggest that you keep to yourself. 
BASHIR: Don't worry. This could just as easily turn out to be a virus or a bacterial infection. Now, lie back and I promise I'll do everything I can to get you out of here as soon as possible. 
[Wardroom]
GOWRON [on monitor]: We find the Federation's demands that we return the captured Cardassian colonies insulting and provocative. Klingon blood was spilled to conquer those worlds. They are now part of the Klingon Empire and we will never give them up. Furthermore, if the Federation still harbours any hope of peaceful coexistence with the Klingon Empire, it must abandon all Starbases and military installations in the Archanis Sector. Our claim to Archanis Four and the surrounding territory is ancient and indisputable. We advise the Federation to leave Archanis, or prepare to face the consequences. Long live the Empire. 
(end of speech) 
SISKO: This recording was sent to the Federation Council three days ago. 
WORF: If Gowron is willing to go to war over the Archanis sector, then he has become even more dangerous than I thought. 
KIRA: I don't get it. The Klingons relinquished their claim to Archanis Four a hundred years ago. 
DAX: I guess they've changed their mind. 
SISKO: I don't think Gowron gives a damn about Archanis. He's just looking for an excuse to rattle his sabre. The question is why? 
DAX: Yesterday I talked to an old friend of Curzon's from the Diplomatic Corps. She says that representatives from Federation worlds near the Klingon border are already urging a preemptive strike. 
KIRA: Sounds like war may be inevitable. 
SISKO: I hope you're wrong, Major. But right now there's not much we can do about it either way. Archanis Four is a long way from here. 
(Kira sneezes repeatedly.) 
DAX: Two, three. I say she stops at seven. 
SISKO: I say eight. Mister Worf? 
WORF: Ten. 
(Kira stops at eight.) 
KIRA: I hate being pregnant. 
SISKO: I win. 
KIRA: My nose hasn't stopped itching for weeks. 
DAX: We've noticed. 
SISKO: Is there anything Doctor Bashir can do about it? 
KIRA: I'm Bajoran. Human women get nauseous. We sneeze. Besides, I think Doctor Bashir's hands are full right now. 
SISKO: How is the Constable? 
KIRA: No news yet. I was thinking of going to visit him. 
WORF: I doubt that he would wish to be seen in such a weakened state. 
DAX: What if he wants some company? Someone to take his mind off his problems? 
WORF: That is doubtful. Odo values his privacy. He does not like to socialise. 
DAX: I think it's all an act. 
WORF: It is not an act. He told me so himself. 
DAX: But you were socialising with him when he said it. 
WORF: Captain, was Dax's last host as argumentative as this one? 
SISKO: Worse. 
DAX: Thank you, Benjamin. I think. 
SISKO: Hopefully Odo will get back on his feet soon. In the meantime, I want him left alone to rest. Agreed? (A-Choo!) Agreed. 
[Infirmary]
KIRA: May I come in? 
ODO: If you're looking for Doctor Bashir, he's not in right now. 
KIRA: Actually, I came to see you. 
ODO: To be honest, Major, I really don't feel like company right now. 
KIRA: I didn't plan on staying. I just came to bring you this. 
ODO: Ah. Today's criminal activities report. 
KIRA: I figured you might be getting tired of staring at medical consoles all day. 
ODO: That was very thoughtful of you, Major. 
KIRA: If there's anything else you need, you let me know. 
ODO: Yeah, I'll do that. 
(Kira leaves. Odo spots something in the report and sits up) 
ODO: What? 
[Cargo bay]
RIONOJ: (female) Keep moving. I'll feel a lot better once we're off this station. 
ODO: Too bad, because you're not leaving. 
RIONOJ: Security Chief Odo. I heard you were indisposed. 
ODO: You heard wrong. Now you and I need to talk about those missing Falangian diamonds. 
RIONOJ: I told you before, I don't know anything about them. 
ODO: Well tell me again. 
(She makes for the airlock) 
ODO: Oh no you don't. 
(But he collapses into a puddle instead.) 
RIONOJ: Let's go. 
[Infirmary]
(Odo's bed is now has lips round the edges.) 
BASHIR: How are you feeling? 
ODO: See for yourself. 
(He's only partially solid) 
BASHIR: It's gotten worse. 
ODO: Very observant, Doctor. It's been more and more difficult for me to maintain humanoid form. 
BASHIR: The latest test results aren't encouraging. The destabilisation of your molecular structure is increasing at an alarming rate. 
ODO: How much longer before I totally lose my ability to stay solid. 
BASHIR: One week, maybe two. After that, if the destabilisation continues. I sent my findings to Doctor Mora. Frankly, he was as baffled as I am, but he wants you to come to his laboratory on Bajor for further tests. 
ODO: Seven years of playing lab rat for him was quite enough. Besides, you have complete access to his data. If the answer was there, you'd have found it by now. 
BASHIR: I don't suppose you'd agree on a trip to Starfleet Medical? 
ODO: Doctor, I think we both know where I have to go. 
BASHIR: I was hoping it wouldn't come to that. 
ODO: There doesn't seem to be much choice. You have to take me back to my people. The only ones who can help me now are the Founders. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Once we enter the Gamma Quadrant, we'll begin transmitting a subspace signal explaining the purpose of our mission. Then we'll enter Dominion space and try to locate the Founders' new homeworld. 
KIRA: Odo's only got a few weeks at best. Do you think we can locate his people in time? 
BASHIR: If we go into Dominion airspace without cloaking, we'll get their attention. 
SISKO: You can be sure of that. 
KIRA: I'd like to come along. 
SISKO: I don't think so, Major. I know Odo's your friend, but I need you here. Besides 
KIRA: (A-choo!) I know, I know. When will you leave? 
SISKO: Doctor? 
BASHIR: As soon as possible. 
SISKO: We'll prepare the Defiant. You prepare the Constable. 
[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: All systems are ready for departure. 
SISKO: Thank you, Mister O'Brien. 
BASHIR: The medical bay is all set, but it'll take a little while to get Odo on board. 
WORF: Why not use the transporter? 
BASHIR: Well, his molecular structure is scrambled enough as it is. The last thing he needs is a trip through a transporter buffer. 
DAX: Benjamin, someone's asking permission to come aboard. 
SISKO: Who is it? 
DAX: Garak. 
WORF: Tell him the ship is off limits to Cardassian spies. 
BASHIR: Sir, if Garak is asking to come aboard, I'm sure he has a good reason. 
SISKO: Have Mister Garak escorted to the mess hall. I'll meet him there. 
[Mess hall]
(Garak is talking to his two security guards.) 
GARAK: Personally I think Starfleet should allow their officers more latitude in accessorizing their uniforms. You'd be surprised what a nice scarf can do. 
(Sisko enters.) 
GARAK: Ah, Captain. How good of you to see me. 
SISKO: Make it brief, Garak. 
GARAK: I'd like to accompany you on your mission. There are some questions I'd like to ask the Founders. 
SISKO: Such as? 
GARAK: The Cardassian Empire lost a number of ships during their aborted attack on the Dominion. I want to know what happened to the crewmembers. 
SISKO: I was under the impression that those ships were destroyed with all hands. 
GARAK: Oh, we don't know that for a fact. As I recall, when the Defiant left the scene of the battle, there were a number of Cardassian warships still fighting. 
SISKO: Ah. And you think some of their crewmembers might have been taken prisoner? 
GARAK: I live in hope. Besides, if you do take me along, I think you'll find me quite useful. I'm a man of many talents. 
SISKO: I have no need for a tailor on this mission, let alone a spy. But maybe there is something you can do for me. This is going to be a long trip for Odo. I need someone to occupy his attention, take his mind off his condition. 
GARAK: You want me to keep him company? 
SISKO: No. Anyone can do that. Dax, Bashir, myself. And what would we have to offer him? Kindness? Sympathy? That's the last thing he wants. 
GARAK: But where you offer kindness, I offer mystery. Where you offer sympathy, I offer intrigue. Just give me a seat next to Odo's bed and I promise you I will conjure up enough innuendos, half-truths, and bald-faced lies about my so-called career in the Obsidian Order to keep the Constable distracted for days. If there's one thing Cardassians excel at, it's conversation. 
SISKO: You've got yourself a job. But all questions for the Founders will have to wait until after Odo gets the help he needs. 
GARAK: We share the same priorities, captain. 
SISKO: Make sure you remember that. 
[Promenade]
(Kira and Bashir are helping semi-liquid Odo to walk out of the Infirmary.) 
QUARK: Odo. 
ODO: Not now, Quark. I'm busy. 
QUARK: I hear you're taking a little trip to the Gamma Quadrant. 
ODO: Care to come along? 
QUARK Are you kidding? I expect to own this station by the time you get back. With you gone, profits from smuggling alone should go up sixty percent. 
ODO: Well, don't get used to it. I'll be back before you know it, making your life miserable. 
QUARK: Then you are coming back? 
ODO: Count on it. 
QUARK: I will. 
KIRA: Take your time. I promise the Defiant won't leave without you. 
BASHIR: Would you like me to have the Promenade cleared? 
ODO: That won't be necessary. 
(The crowd stand aside in respect as he makes his slow way to the airlock.) 
[Bridge]
DAX: We've just cleared the wormhole. 
SISKO: Begin transmitting a request for assistance, then set a course for the Dominion. 
DAX: Aye, sir. 
O'BRIEN: It's funny. I've served on a half a dozen ships, and none of them've had cloaking devices except the Defiant. Now that we're not using it, I feel naked. 
WORF: It is disconcerting, to say the least. 
SISKO: Gentlemen, I feel the same breeze you do. 
O'BRIEN: What're you smiling at? 
DAX: I don't know. I guess it's just being in the same room with so many naked men. 
[Medical bay]
GARAK: Ah, yes. The assassination of Proconsul Merrok of Romulus. Such a tragedy. I met him once, a few weeks before he died. I was working as a gardener at the Cardassian embassy during the 
ODO: You were a gardener on Romulus? 
GARAK: My specialty was Edosian orchids. Beautiful but highly toxic. 
ODO: As I recall, Proconsul Merrok was poisoned. 
GARAK: Funny, I don't remember that. But then again, so many Romulan dignitaries died unexpectedly that year. 
BASHIR: It must be hard to keep them all straight. 
GARAK: You can't imagine. 
BASHIR: Maybe we should let the Constable get some rest. 
ODO: I'll let you know when I need rest, Doctor. A gardener at the Cardassian embassy on Romulus? Fascinating. 
[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: So I get off duty the other night, and I walk into my quarters and there're Keiko and Major Kira talking. 
DAX: Go on. 
O'BRIEN: As soon as I walked in, they stopped. It was like turning off a holosuite programme. 
WORF: They did not want you to hear what they were saying. 
O'BRIEN: Exactly. I think they were talking about me. 
SISKO: Come on, Chief. You have no way of knowing that. 
O'BRIEN: I may not have the proof, but I know one thing. Molly was there, and when she saw me she started giggling. Laugh all you want. I'm thinking of asking Julian to come live with us. Even things up a little. 
DAX: Hold on. I'm reading warp signatures headed our way. Looks like our signal's finally getting a little attention. 
SISKO: Full stop. On screen. 
(A squadron of Jem'Hadar warships.) 
SISKO: Make that a lot of attention. 
DAX: We're being hailed. They want to beam someone aboard to discuss our request. 
WORF: I would advise against allowing Dominion representatives aboard this ship. 
O'BRIEN: It might be better to negotiate over the viewscreen. 
SISKO: But I don't want to give them any reason to think that we're hiding something. Odo needs their help and I'm going to make sure he gets it. Commander, tell the Jem'Hadar that I'll meet their representative in the transporter bay. 
DAX: Aye, sir. 
(The female shape-shifter and four guards beam onto the Bridge. One Jem'Hadar grabs O'Brien as he reaches for a weapon.) 
FOUNDER: That's enough. Let him go. Please, everyone, lower your weapons. There's no need for violence. 
DAX: Are you okay? 
O'BRIEN: I've felt better. 
FOUNDER: I've come for Odo. 
SISKO: Can you help him? 
FOUNDER: Only the Great Link can help him. Leave him with me and you may return home unharmed. 
SISKO: I can't do that. 
AMAT'IGAN: A Founder has given you an order. You will obey it. 
FOUNDER: I'll let you know when I need you. I understand your concern for Odo. I feel it too. 
SISKO: Then let's not stand here and argue. Just tell us where we need to take him. The faster we get moving, the better off he'll be. 
FOUNDER: Your loyalty to Odo is commendable. I will not stop you from accompanying him on the rest of his journey. However, I'm sure you understand my reluctance to reveal the location of our new home. Commander, I must ask you to surrender the helm. Amat'igan will guide your ship for the remainder of the voyage. 
DAX: Captain? 
FOUNDER: My terms are not open to negotiation. 
SISKO: Commander, give him your seat. 
(Amat'igan shows Dax a small device.) 
AMAT'IGAN: This will prevent your navigational computers from retaining any record of our journey. 
WORF: Sir. 
SISKO: Not now, Mister Worf. 
(The viewscreen goes static.) 
FOUNDER: There, that's better. Now, Captain, if it's not too much trouble, I would like to pay Odo a visit. 
[Medical bay]
GARAK: How do I look, Doctor? 
BASHIR: Does it matter? 
GARAK: Of course it matters. I'm here as a representative of the Cardassian Empire and I want to make a good first impression. Constable, what do you think? 
ODO: I think the Romulans poisoned Proconsul Merrok and you were the one responsible for the transporter accident that killed Subcommander Ustard. 
GARAK: You're getting warmer. But how do I look? 
(The door opens.) 
FOUNDER: May I come in? 
ODO: You'll pardon me if I don't get up. 
FOUNDER: Poor Odo. Look what's become of you. 
ODO: Not a pretty sight, am I? 
FOUNDER: Pretty? I wasn't aware you applied such value to your outward appearance. Such concerns are more fitting for solids. 
BASHIR: Excuse me. I don't mean to interrupt, but is there anything you can do for him? 
FOUNDER: Odo, give me your hand. Don't be afraid. 
(They Link. Odo goes completely liquid, then resolidifies looking rather better.) 
GARAK: Amazing. 
FOUNDER: Feeling better? 
ODO: Yes. Though I still have to concentrate to hold my form. 
BASHIR: Your molecular structure is still fluctuating, but it's nowhere near as unstable as it was. 
FOUNDER: Leave now. I wish to speak to Odo in private. 
BASHIR: Odo is my patient. 
ODO: It's all right, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Then I'll be right outside. It can wait, Garak. 
GARAK: Of course. 
(Garak and Bashir leave.) 
FOUNDER: What we have to say is not for your ears. Wait for me outside. 
(The Jem'Hadar guard leaves, then the Starfleet one.) 
FOUNDER: I wish this meeting were under better circumstances. 
ODO: I'm not exactly thrilled with the circumstances myself. 
FOUNDER: I'd hoped you'd return to us on your own. After all, that Bajoran woman you were so fond of seems to have taken an interest in someone else. 
ODO: You know about Major Kira and First Minister Shakaar. 
FOUNDER: Despite your rejection of us, we still take an active interest in your well-being. 
ODO: And just how do you keep so informed about my well-being? 
FOUNDER: There's very little that escapes our attention. 
ODO: Are you saying that you knew I was sick even before we left the station. 
FOUNDER: What do you think? 
ODO: I think you did this to me. You caused my illness so that I'd be forced to come home. 
FOUNDER: As I said, I wish the circumstances of this meeting were different. You killed a changeling, Odo. 
ODO: He was trying to kill my friends. I had no choice. 
FOUNDER: Of course you had a choice, and you chose to side with the solids. To protect them, you were willing to violate the most sacred law of our people. 
ODO: No changeling has ever harmed another. 
FOUNDER: Until you. That's why we forced you to return home to enter into the Great Link and be judged. 
ODO: What does that mean, I'm going to be judged? 
FOUNDER: You will join us in the Great Link, open your thoughts, allow us to understand you. Only then will we be able to decide if your actions were justified. 
ODO: And if you decide that they weren't? 
FOUNDER: You will be punished. 
ODO: Punished? How? 
FOUNDER: You have to understand that nothing like this has ever happened in the entire history of our people. We have never had to sit in judgement over one of our own. That's why we took so long to bring you home. There was disagreement in the Link over what to do with you. 
ODO: I'm sorry I've caused you so much trouble. 
FOUNDER: Perhaps we are to blame. We sent you away. 
ODO: But I'm the one who's going to be punished. 
FOUNDER: That remains to be seen. 
ODO: What if I refuse to cooperate? What if I refuse to join the Link? 
FOUNDER: I stabilised your condition temporarily. Only the Link can heal you. If you refuse to join with us, you will die. 
(The Founder steps into the corridor.) 
FOUNDER: You may go in now, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Thank you. 
FOUNDER: Try not to disturb him. He needs his rest. 
BASHIR: I'll bear that in mind. 
[Corridor]
GARAK: Excuse me, madam. May I have a moment of your time? 
FOUNDER: You are Cardassian. 
GARAK: That's right. And on behalf of my people, I'd like to learn if there were any survivors after our attack on your homeland. 
FOUNDER: Cardassian survivors? 
GARAK: Yes. 
FOUNDER: There were no Cardassian survivors. 
GARAK: You mean, they're all dead? 
FOUNDER: They're dead. You're dead, Cardassia is dead. Your people were doomed the moment they attacked us. I believe that answers your question. 
GARAK: It was a pleasure meeting you. 
[Mess hall]
O'BRIEN: I don't suppose there's any way Odo could hide a communicator on him when he's in the Link with the Founders? 
WORF: I do not think he'll be able to hide anything from the Founders. 
O'BRIEN: There must be some way we can keep a transporter lock on him while he's in the Link. 
SISKO: What about injecting him with radio-nuclides? 
O'BRIEN: That would give the transporter something to lock on to, but there's no way to be sure the nuclides won't disperse throughout the Link. If he's in there for more than a few hours, we could end up with a transporter pad full of shape-shifters. 
ODO: I wouldn't worry about that, Chief. 
SISKO: Constable, shouldn't you be in bed? 
BASHIR: He insisted on coming to see you himself. 
ODO: I thought you might be trying to help me and I wanted to say, don't bother. 
O'BRIEN: Odo, surely you don't really expect us to just stand by while they do God knows what to you? 
ODO: That is exactly what I expect. Captain, I want to be judged. I'm the only changeling who's ever harmed another. I've spent most of my life bringing people to justice. Now that it's my turn, how can I run away? 
SISKO: Are you sure that's what you'll find in the Great Link? Justice? 
O'BRIEN: I've heard a lot of stories about the Dominion and the Founders, and justice seems to be the last thing on their minds. 
ODO: Nevertheless, they're my people and I intend to accept their judgement. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: Report. 
DAX: Everything's status quo. If you want more details than that, you'll have to ask our navigator. 
SISKO: How much longer? 
AMAT'IGAN: You'll be informed when we reach our destination. 
FOUNDER: We will be within transporter range of my world in less than one hour. After we have achieved orbit, Odo and I will transport to the surface. 
SISKO: Doctor Bashir and I will be joining you. 
FOUNDER: If you wish. But Odo may be in the Link for days. 
SISKO: We'll wait. 
[Atoll]
(They beam down onto a solitary rock in an endless sea of shape-shifters.) 
FOUNDER: Come, Odo. It's time. 
(She walks into the sea and merges with the others. Sisko nods to Odo, who smiles and follows.) 
(And they wait.) 
BASHIR: How long has it been? 
SISKO: I've lost track. 
BASHIR: So have I. 
SISKO: Doctor. 
(Bashir was about to throw a stone into the sea.) 
BASHIR: Oh. Right. 
[Defiant corridor]
(Worf and two security march along.) 
WORF: Wait here. 
[Jefferies tube junction.]
WORF: Garak. Just as I thought. 
GARAK: Don't tell me. I overlooked one of the security monitors. 
WORF: You were trying to override the launch controls for the quantum torpedoes. 
GARAK: I was hoping to gain control of the phasers as well. I just hadn't got around to it yet. Don't you see? We have an opportunity here. A chance to end the Dominion threat once and for all. We have enough firepower on this ship to turn that planet into a smoking cinder. Personally, I think that would be a very good thing. 
WORF: And what about Odo, and Captain Sisko and Doctor Bashir? 
GARAK: They'll die. And once the Jem'Hadar ships realise what we're doing, so will we. But what are our lives compared to saving the entire Alpha Quadrant? 
WORF: We are not here to wage war. 
GARAK: I'm not talking about war. What I'm proposing is wiping out every Founder on that planet. Obliterating the Great Link. Come now, Mister Worf, you're a Klingon. Don't tell me you'd object to a little genocide in the name of self-defence? 
WORF: I am a warrior, not a murderer. 
GARAK: What you are is a great disappointment. 
(They fight. Worf finally gets the upper hand.) 
WORF: You fight well for a tailor. 
[Atoll]
(And even later, Bashir has fallen asleep.) 
SISKO: Doctor. 
(The sea is churning. Odo is tossed around then dumped naked onto the atoll.) 
SISKO: Odo, are you all right? 
BASHIR: Captain, I'm getting some strange readings. 
SISKO: What have you done to him? 
FOUNDER: He has been judged. 
BASHIR: Captain, I'm reading a heart, lungs, and a digestive system. It's as if he were human. 
FOUNDER: We gave him what he wanted. We made him a solid. He's one of you now. Oh, poor Odo. Perhaps we should have killed you. It would have been far less cruel. He's yours. Take him and go. 
SISKO: Sisko to Defiant. 
DAX [OC]: Go ahead, Captain. 
SISKO: Three to beam up. 
[Medical bay]
(Bashir takes a blood sample from Odo.) 
ODO: Staring at it isn't going to make it change shape. 
BASHIR: It's blood, all right. Not a trace of changeling protoplasm in your entire system. Type O negative, if you were wondering. 
ODO: I'll be sure to remember that. 
BASHIR: Physiologically, you're completely human. 
ODO: Except for my face. 
BASHIR: Yes, I was wondering about that. Why they left it unchanged. 
ODO: They left it this way on purpose. To make sure I'd never forget what I was. And what I've lost. 
Captain's log, stardate 49962.4. After leaving our Jem'Hadar escorts at the edge of Dominion space, the Defiant has returned home. But for Constable Odo, I'm afraid the journey has just begun. 
[Garak's shop]
(Odo is having to get a uniform.) 
GARAK: How does it feel? You comfortable? Not too tight? 
ODO: It's fine. Though it does make me feel a bit 
GARAK: Itchy? That's the Inkarian wool. You'll get used to it. Unless of course you're allergic to Inkarian wool. 
ODO: It's not the uniform. I think I'm hungry? 
GARAK: You know, I envy you. Think of all the wonderful foods you'll get to enjoy for the first time. 
ODO: I can hardly wait. Well, you've done your job. Now I have to do mine. 
GARAK: yes, I suppose you do. Six months in a holding cell? The thought is unattractive, to say the least. 
ODO: Well, if you ask me, Captain Sisko let you off lightly. Sabotage, assaulting a Federation officer, attempting to incite war between the Federation and the Dominion. 
GARAK: Yes, but my heart was in the right place. 
AROYA: There you are, Odo. I've been looking all over for you. I heard about what happened. I'm so sorry. 
ODO: Thank you. 
AROYA: I know it won't be easy, but eventually you'll see how being a humanoid has its advantages. If there's anything at all I can do, just let me know. 
(Aroya leaves) 
GARAK: What a generous offer. 
ODO: Let's go, Garak. 
[Promenade]
SISKO: Constable, are you all right? 
ODO: It's nothing. It's just a headache. Every once in a while I still get flashes of memory from the Great Link. A jumble of images or a word, but I can't quite make sense of it. 
SISKO: You know, there's no reason to rush things. You don't have to go back to work right away. 
ODO: Yes, I do. When I joined with the other changelings in the Great Link, I felt something I've never felt before. In that moment, I knew I was home. For the first time, I felt that I understood my people. Their distrust of the solids, their willingness to do anything to protect themselves. And then in an instant it was all snatched away. I'm trapped in this body. I can never rejoin the Great Link. My job is the only thing I have left. Besides, I'm still the best law enforcement officer on this station. 
SISKO: You're the best law enforcement officer in this sector. Maybe the whole damn quadrant. 
ODO: Maybe. What's that all about? 
SISKO: I have no idea. 
GOWRON [on monitor]: The Klingon Empire is tired of words, of negotiation, of the endless delaying tactics of the Federation. Therefore, as of today, a Klingon task force has been dispatched to the Archanis Sector. Starfleet has ten days to abandon their bases and withdraw their forces from the Sector. 
KIRA: It's coming in on all frequencies. 
GOWRON [on monitor]: Any Starfleet vessels found in the Sector after that time will be considered the enemy and fired upon. 
SISKO: Major, put the station on combat alert. Notify the Bajoran militia. 
ODO: Captain. It's him. 
SISKO: Gowron? What about him? 
ODO: During the Link, I sensed that the other changelings were trying to hide things from me. Faces, names. One of them was him. 
KIRA: What are you saying? 
ODO: I'm saying that he's one of them. Gowron, the head of the Klingon Empire, is a changeling. 
GOWRON [on monitor]: No misinterpretation of my words. Archanis is ours and we will take it back. Resist us in any way, and there will be war! 

