Episode Number: 553
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Afterimage
Afterimage
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 12 Oct, 1998
[Promenade - upper level]
EZRI: It's funny. Before yesterday, I'd never set foot on this station but it's as familiar to me as the back of my hand. Isn't that odd? 
(Morn looks blank.) 
EZRI: You have no idea who I am, do you? 
(Morn blinks.) 
EZRI: I didn't think so. Thanks for listening anyway.. 
[Promenade]
(Ezri walks along, then stops outside the Shrine.) 
[Shrine]
(Ezri goes in, and walks slowly up to the Orb box. Kira enters.) 
EZRI: I was killed here. I mean, Jadzia was. 
KIRA: I try not to think about that. If I did, I'm not sure that I could come back here. 
EZRI: It's a strange sensation, dying. No matter how many times it happens to you, you never get used to it. It must be a little disconcerting for you, knowing that I have Jadzia's memories. No wonder you're uncomfortable. 
KIRA: It's a lot to get used to. 
EZRI: Tell me about it. Well, I'll let you get to your prayers. 
[Quark's]
(Ezri looks dubiously into the mug Quark has served to her.) 
EZRI: Bloodwine. 
QUARK: That's the good stuff. Same vintage I served when you and Worf got married. 
EZRI: It smells awful. 
QUARK: It used to be your favourite. 
EZRI: I used to be right handed, too. A lot of things have changed since I was joined. 
QUARK: I can imagine. Seven lifetimes worth of memories would mix up anyone. Or is it eight? 
EZRI: Who knows anymore? 
QUARK: It'll be a lot easier once you get settled in. Have you picked out your quarters yet? 
EZRI: I'm not staying. I'm going back to the Destiny to be an assistant counsellor. 
QUARK: You're a therapist? 
EZRI: Why does everyone sound so surprised when they hear that? 
QUARK: Oh, it's just you're so young. Why are you in such a hurry to leave? Why not stay for a while and get to know your old friends again. 
EZRI: I don't want to force things. People need time to get over losing Jadzia. You know something, Quark? Besides Benjamin, you're the only one of Jadzia's friends who doesn't seem uncomfortable around me. 
QUARK: She and I were close, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be close too. Remember all those late night tongo games? 
EZRI: Who could forget? Wait a minute. You owe me ten slips of latinum from our last game. 
QUARK: I don't think so. 
EZRI: I won with a Full Consortium. I remember. 
QUARK: Your memory's playing tricks on you. 
EZRI: Don't say that, Quark. I'm confused enough as it is. 
QUARK: Look who's here. 
(Worf is in the doorway.) 
QUARK: I bet the two of you have a lot to talk about. 
(Worf leaves.) 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Come in. 
(There's no one at door to Ops. The bell rings twice and he opens the door to the corridor.) 
SISKO: Dax. 
EZRI: Are you alone? 
SISKO: Why are you sneaking in this way? 
EZRI: I didn't want to go through Ops in case Worf was there. We bumped into each other last night in Quark's. 
SISKO: It didn't go well, I take it? You weren't expecting him to accept you right away, were you? 
EZRI: Of course not. But he wouldn't even talk to me. 
SISKO: Perhaps he was just trying to respect your customs. He knows that the joined Trill aren't supposed to get involved with people who were married to their previous hosts. 
EZRI: But that doesn't mean we can't talk to each other. Worf knows that. 
SISKO: Are you sure? 
EZRI: I told him all about Trill traditions. Jadzia did. We discussed them. They discussed them. 
SISKO: I understand. 
EZRI: These pronouns are going to drive me crazy. 
(Worf is in Ops.) 
EZRI: Look at him, Benjamin. He's in pain. 
SISKO: How can you tell? 
EZRI: I was his wife. I can tell. I don't want to put him through any more heartache than he's already going through. It's a good thing I'm going back to the Destiny. 
SISKO: You're still planning on leaving. 
EZRI: I can't stay. I couldn't do that to him. Besides, I think it might be easier for me on the Destiny. There are too many memories here. 
SISKO: I'm going to miss you, old man. 
EZRI: I'm going to miss you too, Benjamin. 
[Quark's]
(It's busy. There's quite a crowd milling around the tables.) 
BASHIR: If you feel that strongly, Miles, you can be Crockett. I'll be Travis. 
ODO: And who am I going to be again? 
BASHIR: General Santa Anna. 
ODO: Santa Anna. 
BASHIR: When can our costumes be ready? 
(Garak is too busy with a PADD to hear.) 
BASHIR: Garak? 
GARAK: Hmm? 
BASHIR: Our holosuite costumes. When can they be ready? 
GARAK: Oh, I'm afraid you're going to have to find them from somewhere else. The shop's closed. 
O'BRIEN: Still? 
GARAK: Well, Starfleet Intelligence is keeping me quite busy these days. 
BASHIR: What if we let you be Crockett? 
O'BRIEN: Hey. 
GARAK: Even if I was interested, I don't have the time. Do you have any idea how long it takes to decode a Cardassian military transmission? I mean, I invented some of the basic encryption protocols when I was with the Obsidian Order, but it still takes me several days to decipher the simplest sentence. 
BASHIR: You've got to take a break sometime. 
GARAK: Well I intend to. Just as soon as the Dominion is driven off Cardassia. Must you stand so close? 
BASHIR: That was a bit harsh. 
GARAK: Well, I don't like people looming over me. I have to get back to work. Thank you for your company, gentlemen. 
[Garak's shop]
(Garak is hard at work at his console when he comes over hot and flushed. The only sound we hear is his heart pounding, Odo enters and speaks, but we and Garak cannot hear him.) 
ODO: (silent) Starfleet intercepted another Cardassian military transmission. Are you all right? Garak? 
GARAK: I can't breathe. 
(Garak collapses.) 
ODO: Garak! Odo to the Infirmary. We have a medical emergency. Garak. 
[Infirmary]
ODO: He had a claustrophobic attack in his shop. 
SISKO: His shop? I don't understand. That's a good sized space. 
GARAK: I know. I've been claustrophobic for as long as I can remember, but lately it seems to have gotten worse. Rooms that I once found completely tolerable now suddenly feel alarmingly cramped. 
BASHIR: I wish I had an explanation, but I don't. He checks out fine. 
GARAK: Well, I don't feel fine. Would you gentlemen mind terribly if we continued this conversation on the Promenade? 
[Promenade]
ODO: Better? 
GARAK: A little. 
SISKO: Mister Garak, as much as I appreciate with your situation, I'm not sure why you asked to see me. 
GARAK: I was hoping you'd be kind enough to express my regrets to Starfleet Intelligence. When I get this way, my concentration isn't what it should be. I'm afraid I won't be decoding any transmissions for a while. 
SISKO: Can I tell them when to expect you back on the job? 
GARAK: I wish I could say. Believe me, I'm not happy about this either. I want to see an end to this war just as much as you. And now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go hem some pants. For some reason, sewing seems to calm me down. 
(Garak leaves.) 
ODO: Sewing? 
SISKO: We can't afford to lose Mister Garak right now. Is there anything you can do for him? 
BASHIR: To be blunt, our friend Garak needs to have his head examined. 
[Guest quarters]
(Ezri is standing on her head.) 
EZRI: Me? You want me to work with Garak? 
SISKO: You're a counsellor, aren't you? 
EZRI: Assistant counsellor. I'm still in training. 
SISKO: Oh, come on, Dax. What are you going to learn in the next few months that you haven't already learned in the last three hundred years? 
EZRI: Oh, how to keep from breaking into tears for no reason. How to resist the urge to stand on my head. Things like that. 
SISKO: Why are you standing on your head, by the way? 
EZRI: Emony used to do it. 
SISKO: The gymnast? 
EZRI: She found it relaxing. 
SISKO: Do you? 
EZRI: Actually, it's giving me a headache. 
(She comes down and sits on the floor.) 
EZRI: Why can't Julian work with Garak? 
SISKO: Julian's a good doctor, but he's no counsellor. Not even an assistant counsellor. And besides, he doesn't have eight lifetimes worth of experience under his belt. 
EZRI: I bet he doesn't stand on his head for no reason, either. 
SISKO: That's a good point. Come on, old man, you can do this. 
EZRI: All right, I'll try. I just wish I had as much confidence in me as you do. 
[Quark's]
QUARK: So what do you think? 
BASHIR: About what? 
QUARK: About her. 
BASHIR: About who? 
QUARK: Dax. 
BASHIR: Oh, Ezri. She seems nice. 
QUARK: Meaning what? 
BASHIR: Meaning nice. 
QUARK: Oh, come on, Doctor. I know the way you felt about Jadzia. 
BASHIR: She's not Jadzia. 
QUARK: She's the next best thing. So, are you interested? 
BASHIR: Sounds to me like you're the one who's interested, Quark. 
QUARK: It's not every day you get a second chance with a woman. 
BASHIR: It's not the same woman. 
QUARK: She's still Dax, isn't she? 
BASHIR: More or less. 
QUARK: Well, that's good enough for me. Ready for a little competition? 
BASHIR: You're insane. 
QUARK: And you are going to lose. 
[Garak's shop]
EZRI: Am I interrupting? 
GARAK: Ah. You must be Ezri Dax. The Captain told me that you'd be dropping by to counsel me. 
EZRI: Is that all right? 
GARAK: Oh, it all depends on what it involves. I'm a very private person. 
EZRI: I understand. So is it helping? The sewing. Is it making you feel better? 
GARAK: Thankfully, yes. 
EZRI: You're lucky, nothing helps me. 
GARAK: Are you claustrophobic too? 
EZRI: Why would you say that? 
GARAK: You just said 
EZRI: No, I get spacesick. Ever since I was joined. I'm very sensitive to motion. I can even feel the station spinning. 
GARAK: Really? 
EZRI: It's because of what happened to Torias. He was killed in a shuttle accident. 
GARAK: But why would that make you spacesick? 
EZRI: Because I blame myself for what happened. 
GARAK: You were piloting? 
EZRI: Yes. No. Depends on how you look at it. Torias was my fifth host. Didn't I say that? 
GARAK: No. 
EZRI: Well, he was. And I think the reason that his death has stayed with me for so long is because I just can't seem to forgive him for getting himself killed. 
GARAK: But you said it was an accident. So if he's not to blame, then you're not to blame, either. 
EZRI: I know. But somehow I can't help but punish myself for it. 
GARAK: By getting spacesick. 
EZRI: Exactly. 
GARAK: Don't take this the wrong way, but it sounds to me as if you're the one that needs to see a counsellor. 
EZRI: You're probably right. But I didn't come here to talk about myself, I came to talk about you. 
GARAK: So you did. 
EZRI: Do you remember anything traumatic happening to you when you were young. Something involving getting trapped in a confined space. 
GARAK: If I had been that careless, my father would have left me there to teach me a lesson. 
EZRI: Sounds like he was strict. 
GARAK: He didn't get to be the head of the Obsidian Order without a sense of discipline. 
EZRI: Did he discipline you? 
GARAK: He punished me when I misbehaved. What father wouldn't? 
EZRI: Tobin. 
GARAK: My second host. He could not bring himself to discipline his children, no matter what they did. But that's another story. How did you say that your father punished you? 
GARAK: He'd lock me in a closet. 
EZRI: Why didn't you mention that when I asked if you'd ever been trapped in a confined space. 
GARAK: I wasn't trapped. I knew he'd let me out as soon as I learned my lesson. 
EZRI: Learned your lesson? Did you think you deserved to be locked in that closet? 
GARAK: I could be very stubborn. 
EZRI: You blame yourself. Just like I blame myself for that shuttle accident. Maybe you get claustrophobic for the same reason that I get spacesick. We're both punishing ourselves for things that weren't our fault. That's it. Don't you see? We both have to let go of all this misplaced guilt. 
GARAK: And if we do, our problems will simply disappear? 
EZRI: Not overnight, but it's a step in the right direction. 
GARAK: Well, I'll certainly give your advice some thought. 
EZRI: Me too. Are you all right? 
GARAK: To tell the truth, I'm starting to feel a little claustrophobic. 
EZRI: Probably because we've been talking about it. Actually, I'm starting to feel a little spacesick myself. 
GARAK: If it's all the same to you, I think I'll go back to my sewing. 
EZRI: Good idea. 
GARAK: Thank you for stopping by. 
EZRI: My pleasure. 
[Corridor]
(Ezri turns a corner and bumps into) 
EZRI: Hello, Worf. 
WORF: Ensign. 
EZRI: Ensign? That's all you have to say to me? 
WORF: What more is there to say? 
EZRI: I was your wife. 
WORF: You are not Jadzia. Jadzia died and went to Sto-vo-kor. I do not know you. Nor do I wish to know you. 
[Guest quarters]
EZRI: Come in. 
SISKO: Dax? 
EZRI: Do you think the Chief could adjust the inertial dampers so the station would spin a little slower? 
SISKO: I don't know. Why? 
EZRI: Never mind. To what do I owe the pleasure? 
SISKO: I'm not going to say I told you so, but Garak stopped by Odo's office this morning to pick up the latest Cardassian transmissions for decoding. 
EZRI: Really? 
SISKO: It looks like Garak's claustrophobia is under control. 
EZRI: I guess our talk helped him. 
SISKO: I told you so. 
EZRI: I thought you said you weren't going to say that. 
SISKO: I couldn't resist. 
SISKO: Are you all right? 
EZRI: I talked with Worf. He doesn't want to have anything to do with me. 
SISKO: Perhaps I should have a talk with him. 
EZRI: Absolutely not. You intimidate him. 
SISKO: Me? 
EZRI: Don't tell him I told you. 
SISKO: I intimidate Worf, huh? 
EZRI: You like that, don't you? 
SISKO: Of course not. 
EZRI: Come on. I've been a man, I know. 
SISKO: Look, we're not talking about me and Worf, we're talking about you and Worf. Now, I sympathise with what he's going through, but as far as I'm concerned, you have as much right to be here as he does. 
EZRI: What are you getting at, Benjamin? 
SISKO: The war certainly has not been good for morale around here. I've been thinking the station could use a good counsellor. I can't think of anyone better suited for the job. 
EZRI: Thanks for saying that. But even if Worf wasn't an issue, I'm still just an assistant counsellor. 
SISKO: I took the liberty of talking to Starfleet Medical. They're willing to waive the rest of your training and give you a commission as a full counsellor with the rank of lieutenant. 
EZRI: How'd you talk them into that? 
SISKO: I asked them what they thought you might learn in the next few months 
EZRI: That I haven't already learned in the last three hundred years. 
SISKO: They saw my point. I hope you do, too. 
EZRI: It means a lot to me that you want me to stay, but I can't. 
SISKO: Because of Worf? 
EZRI: Mostly. 
SISKO: Well, you just say the word and I will intimidate him for you. 
[Replimat]
EZRI: Idanian spice pudding. No, cancel that. I'll have a kilm steak, rare. No, Tobin was a vegetarian. Give me 
BASHIR: Two Fanalian toddies, hot. 
EZRI: How'd you know? 
BASHIR: Lucky guess. Care to join me? 
EZRI: Sure. 
BASHIR: So here we are. 
EZRI: What was that? 
BASHIR: What was what? 
EZRI: That look. 
BASHIR: This might be the last thing you want to hear, but you have Jadzia's eyes. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have said anything. 
EZRI: Don't flirt with me, Julian. Please. 
BASHIR: I'm not. 
EZRI: I remember the way you used to flirt with Jadzia. 
BASHIR: It was just an observation. 
EZRI: Good. Because I'm not like her. She knew how to handle it. Actually, she quite enjoyed it. 
BASHIR: Really? 
EZRI: You didn't know? 
BASHIR: I always suspected. 
EZRI: You can be very charming. You want to know something? If Worf hadn't come along, it would have been you. 
(Ezri takes Bashir's hand.) 
EZRI: You really miss her, don't you? 
BASHIR: Yes, I suppose I always will. But somehow, talking to you seems to help. 
(Worf sees them holding hands.) 
TALPET [OC]: Deputy Talpet to Doctor Bashir. 
BASHIR: Go ahead. 
TALPET [OC]: We have a medical emergency in airlock seven. It's Garak, sir. 
BASHIR: I'm on my way. 
[Airlock]
(Bashir and Ezri arrive to see Garak trying to get into the biggest open space available - space itself.) 
BASHIR: Garak! What's he doing in there? 
EZRI: Garak, open the door. 
GARAK: Let me out! Let me out! 
[Holosuite - cliff]
(Ezri and Garak sit on a ledge, looking out over an ocean.) 
EZRI: Breathe in, and out. In and out. Better? It's beautiful, isn't it? Look at that sky. It just goes on and on. 
GARAK: But it doesn't. It's an illusion. There's a holosuite wall not ten metres in front of us. 
EZRI: But you can't see it. 
GARAK: I can feel it. 
EZRI: We could call up another programme. 
GARAK: I can't believe the way I humiliated myself back there. I just wanted to get out. I couldn't breathe. 
EZRI: If you were looking for fresh air, you sure were knocking on the wrong door. 
GARAK: I have to get this situation under control. If I don't, I'm going to be forced to leave the station, and then where will I go? I can't go back to Cardassia. I doubt if I'd be welcome on Bajor. 
EZRI: You're not going to have to leave the station. I'll talk to Quark and tell him to leave this holosuite available to you twenty six hours a day. So the next time you feel like jumping out the nearest airlock, come here instead. It's going to be all right. We're going to get this under control. I promise. 
GARAK: If you don't mind, I'd like to sit here and be alone for a while. 
EZRI: I'll come and check in on you later. 
[Infirmary]
(Quark is screaming as Bashir probes in his ear.) 
BASHIR: Hold still. I think I've got something. 
(It's a feather.) 
QUARK: I knew it. Never get a tympanic tickle from an amateur. 
BASHIR: Tympanic tickle? 
QUARK: It's 
BASHIR: Never mind. I don't want to know. Hold still. I'm going to get you some antibiotics. 
(In the dispensary area, a hand lands on Bashir's shoulder.) 
WORF: We need to talk. 
BASHIR: About what? 
(Worf pushes Bashir up against the bulkhead.) 
WORF: Do not toy with me, Doctor. I know how you felt about Jadzia. 
BASHIR: That was a long time ago. 
WORF: I saw you with her. 
BASHIR: Jadzia? 
WORF: You know who I'm talking about. 
BASHIR: No, you've got it all wrong. 
WORF: Stay away from her. 
BASHIR: Now wait just a minute. You have no right to tell me who I can be friends with. 
WORF: If you dishonour Jadzia's memory, you will regret it. And that goes for you too, Ferengi. 
QUARK: What did I do? 
[Garak's shop]
(Ezri comes down the Promenade stairs to see Garak ripping a dress apart.) 
EZRI: Garak? I thought you were going to stay in the holosuite for a while. 
GARAK: I got tired of staring at a fake landscape, pretending I was outside. No, no, no, work is the answer. My father always used to say that people should throw themselves into their work. Do your chores, Elim. I told you to do your chores. 
EZRI: And if you didn't? What would he do to you? 
GARAK: Oh, no, no, no. Please, don't start. Spare me your insipid psychobabble. I'm not some quivering neurotic who feels sorry for himself because his daddy wasn't nice. You couldn't begin to understand me. 
EZRI: I'd like to try. 
GARAK: Oh, I'm sure you would. You'd like nothing more than to pry into my personal affairs. Well, I'm not interested in dissecting my childhood. I only want to save my people from the Dominion. I don't need someone to walk in here and hold my hand. I want someone to help me get back to work. And you, my dear, aren't up to this task. I mean, look at you. You're pathetic. A confused child trying to live up to a legacy left by her predecessors. You're not worthy of the name Dax. I knew Jadzia. She was vital, alive. She owned herself. And you? You don't even know who you are. How dare you presume to help me? You can't even help yourself. Now get out of here before I say something unkind. 
[Shrine]
(Distraught Ezri seeks sanctuary, and cries.) 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: What's this all about? 
EZRI: What does it look like? I'm resigning from Starfleet. 
SISKO: Why? 
EZRI: Because I can't do my job. Garak was right. How can I help other people when I can't even help myself? 
SISKO: I know this has been a hard time for you, old man, but you see 
EZRI: Don't call me that! I'm not the old man. I'm not Curzon. Or Jadzia. 
SISKO: No, you're Ezri. Ezri Dax. And you've been given eight lifetimes worth of experience. Now I know this is confusing for you right now, but in time you'll see it's a wonderful gift. 
EZRI: It's a gift I don't deserve. 
SISKO: If that's the way you feel, then go back to Trill. Talk to the Symbiosis Commission. Maybe you can convince them to take the symbiont out of you. 
EZRI: I wish they could. But removing the symbiont would kill me, you know that. 
SISKO: Well, if you're leaving Starfleet, you'll have to find something to do. Let's see. Maybe you could be one of the people who takes care of the symbiont pools? It's quiet in those caves. No one around. No one expecting great things from you. You could spend the rest of your life underground, in the dark, stirring mud. Eighty or ninety years of that might be just what you need. And as for Dax? That symbiont had eight amazing lives. So what if the ninth was a waste. 
EZRI: Stop it, Benjamin. I thought you of all people would understand. 
SISKO: I do understand. And you were right. You don't deserve the Dax symbiont. Quite frankly, you don't deserve to wear that uniform. I'll pass this on to Starfleet Command. Dismissed. 
(Ezri uses the corridor exit, and leans against the bulkhead.) 
[Worf's quarters]
(Worf is sharpening his bat'leth when the doorbell rings.) 
WORF: Enter. 
(It's O'Brien, bearing bloodwine.) 
WORF: Oh, no. Not again. 
O'BRIEN: Compliments of Doctor Bashir. 
WORF: He sent you? 
O'BRIEN: No, that was my idea. Now, if you want to skip the drinking and get right down to the talking, I'm game. 
WORF: What do you wish to discuss? 
O'BRIEN: Julian swears there's nothing going on between him and Ezri. There's no reason for you to be jealous. 
WORF: This has nothing to do with jealousy! I know that Doctor Bashir cared for Jadzia, but this woman is not Jadzia, and treating her as if she were dishonours her memory. 
O'BRIEN: Wrong. Treating Ezri like a stranger dishonours Jadzia's memory. 
WORF: It doesn't make sense. She is not Jadzia, yet she is. How can I honour the memory of the woman I loved when she is not really dead? 
O'BRIEN: I don't have an answer for you, Worf. Let me ask you this. How do you think Jadzia would wanted you to treat Ezri? 
WORF: There's no way to know. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, there is. And the person who can tell you is the person you've been avoiding ever since she got here. 
[Garak's shop]
(Garak is still sewing.) 
GARAK: Well, I didn't think you'd darken my doorstep again. 
EZRI: I just wanted to say I'm sorry. I wish I'd been able to help you. 
GARAK: So do I. 
EZRI: Well, you don't have to worry about me bothering you anymore. I'll be leaving in the morning. 
GARAK: Yes, I'd heard that the Destiny was going to arrive tomorrow. 
EZRI: They're putting in for supplies before they head to the front. But I won't be going with them. I've decided to go back to Trill. 
GARAK: How nice for you. 
EZRI: Actually, the Destiny's going to be joining the Seventh Fleet at Kalandra. 
GARAK: Kalandra? 
EZRI: Those transmissions you decoded last week must have convinced Starfleet that it's a good place to launch a new offensive. 
GARAK: Yes, the transmissions did indicate that it was somewhat vulnerable. 
EZRI: If the offensive goes well, Starfleet will have you to thank for it. 
GARAK: That's most gratifying. 
EZRI: I just thought you should know. 
(Garak can't even put a dress up on a clothes hangar.) 
EZRI: Are you all right? 
GARAK: Yes, of course I'm all right. That's very good news about Kalandra. 
EZRI: Let's just hope it goes well. The Cardassians will put up a strong fight. 
GARAK: Oh, indeed they will. But in the end, they'll lose. 
EZRI: How can you be so sure? 
GARAK: Because they won't be expecting an attack. Because they have no idea that I broke their code. All those Cardassians are going to die because of me. 
EZRI: I suppose that's one way of looking at it. 
GARAK: What other way is there? 
EZRI: That by helping to end the war, you'll be saving lives. 
GARAK: Saving lives? And what lives would I be saving? Human? Klingon? Romulan? 
EZRI: And Cardassian. 
GARAK: No, not Cardassians. They're going to fight to the bitter end. The Dominion will see to that. Don't you understand? Don't you see? I wanted to believe that I was helping my people, liberating them, but all I've done is to pave the way for their annihilation. I'm a traitor! I've betrayed every 
(Garak collapses.) 
EZRI: Dax to Infirmary, I need a medical team. 
[Infirmary]
EZRI: How are you feeling? 
GARAK: Well I'm breathing much better now. 
EZRI: At least we found out what's been triggering these claustrophobic attacks you've been having. 
GARAK: You know, when I first agreed to help Starfleet, I was convinced it was the right thing to do. I didn't allow myself to doubt it, even for an instant. I never realised how much it was gnawing at me. I suppose I was looking for a way out and the claustrophobia gave me an excuse to stop fighting my people. 
EZRI: Now that you know that, what are you going to do? 
GARAK: Get back to work. What else can I do? The Dominion must be stopped. Even if it does mean the destruction of Cardassia. 
EZRI: The Captain will be glad to hear that you're back on the job. 
GARAK: Well, he has you to thank for it. And so do I. And what about you? Are you still planning to go back to Trill? 
EZRI: No. I'm going to stay in Starfleet. 
GARAK: I'm sure the Captain will be glad to hear that as well. 
EZRI: The Captain! 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: What now? 
EZRI: It's my request to be reinstated into Starfleet. 
SISKO: I can't send this to Starfleet Command. 
EZRI: Why not? 
SISKO: Because I never submitted your resignation. 
EZRI: I had a feeling you didn't mean all those things you said to me. You were just trying to rattle my cage. 
SISKO: You've done it to me often enough. I'm glad it worked. Mister Garak has asked that the latest Cardassian transmissions be sent to the Infirmary. Well done. 
EZRI: Thanks. Somehow I thought you'd be happier that I was staying in Starfleet. 
SISKO: I'd be happier if you would stay here at DS Nine. 
EZRI: Me, too. But you know I can't. 
SISKO: I hope Captain Raymer knows how lucky she is. She's getting one hell of a counsellor. 
[Guest quarters]
(Ezri is packing when the doorbell rings.) 
EZRI: Yes? 
WORF: May I come in? 
EZRI: Of course. 
WORF: I understand that you are leaving in the morning. 
EZRI: That's right. 
WORF: I am not certain that I have treated you the way that Jadzia would have wanted. 
EZRI: You'll get no argument from me there. 
WORF: I loved her with all my heart. 
EZRI: And she loved you. 
WORF: Part of me is glad to know that she is not gone forever. But in some ways it would be easier if she were. 
EZRI: I know. 
WORF: I have heard that the Captain offered you a position as station counsellor. I would not want you to decline on my account. 
EZRI: Worf, I can't stay. I couldn't do that to you. 
WORF: Do you wish to stay? 
EZRI: Very much. 
WORF: Then do. Jadzia would not have wanted you to leave because of me. 
EZRI: Thank you. 
WORF: It will be a long time before I can accept what has happened. Until then 
EZRI: You need your breathing room. I understand. 
[Wardroom]
(Ezri gets her pip at a party.) 
SISKO: Congratulations, Lieutenant. I want you to take a good look around. You have just agreed to take responsibility for the mental health of everyone in this room. You have your work cut out for you. 
BASHIR: Well, I'm glad they made you a lieutenant. It would have been hard taking advice from an ensign. 
O'BRIEN: Since when did you take advice from anyone? 
ODO: Why don't you join us for dinner tonight? 
EZRI: I don't want to put you out. 
KIRA: Oh, no, please come. It'll take the pressure off me. All he does is sit there and counts how many times I chew. 
EZRI: I'll be there. 
JAKE: She is cute. 
SISKO: She's also about three hundred years too old for you. 
QUARK: I took the liberty of putting together a plate for you. 
EZRI: Thanks, Quark. Worf isn't here, is he? 
QUARK: Good question. Excuse me. 
(Quark takes the plate back.) 
GARAK: It's quite a nice turnout. Congratulations. 
EZRI: I hope it isn't too crowded for you. 
GARAK: Oh, not at all. 
(Worf raises his tankard to her across the room.) 

