Episode Number: 441
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Maquis part 2
The Maquis part 2
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 1 May, 1994
Last time on Deep Space Nine.
(KaBOOM goes the Bok'Nor.) 
SISKO: A number of Admirals at Starfleet Command are worried the destruction of the Bok'Nor might jeopardise the treaty. 
HUDSON: Oh, are they really? 
SISKO: As the two ranking officers along the Cardassian border, we've been asked to assess the potential risk. 
SAKONNA: I wish to procure weapons. 
QUARK: I beg your pardon? 
SAKONNA: Guns, phaser banks, photon torpedoes 
QUARK: Shh! 
SAKONNA: (sotto) Troop transports and a number of cobalt-thorium devices. 
QUARK: You're a gun runner? 
DUKAT: I'm here unofficially to help you find out the truth about the Bok'Nor. 
SISKO: Why would you want to help me? 
DUKAT: Because I already know the truth. 
SISKO: I've got people out there killing people, Major. You suggest I turn a blind eye to that? 
KIRA: Well, they don't have a right to defend themselves? 
SISKO: They've crossed the line. 
KIRA: If Starfleet is unwilling to defend their people in 
SISKO: They chose to live with the Cardassians. 
KIRA: Well, I didn't. But I lived with them for twenty six years before the liberation came. Every Bajoran lived with them in constant fear. I know what those colonists are going through. 
(Dukat gets shot trying to escape from his kidnappers.) 
KIRA: We just received a general subspace transmission from somewhere in the Demilitarised zone. A group there is taking credit for the kidnapping of Dukat. They're calling themselves the Maquis. 
HUDSON: I'm glad to see you had no trouble finding us, Ben. It seems that one disaster after another keeps bringing us back together again. 
And now for the conclusion. 
[Jungle]
HUDSON: You should have seen the look on your face when you saw me standing there, Ben. 
SISKO: I hardly recognised you without your uniform. 
HUDSON: Well, it's been feeling a little tight lately. 
SISKO: Just like that. 
HUDSON: It's just a uniform, Ben. 
SISKO: Is that all it is? I remember when you first put it on. 
HUDSON: Yes, graduation day at the Academy. We both swore we'd be starship captains by the time we were thirty. 
SISKO: And admirals by forty. 
HUDSON: Yes. 
SISKO: I think we've both done pretty well for ourselves. 
HUDSON: Yes, we have, haven't we? But now I've got something better. These settlers, Ben, if you saw all they have accomplished without any help from the Federation, then you'd fight along with them. 
SISKO: I don't think so. 
HUDSON: They've travelled out here to the back of the beyond and built homes out of the wilderness. Now maybe the Federation can turn their back on them, but I can't. 
SISKO: I'm not asking you to, but your joining the Maquis isn't helping anyone. Your actions have only endangered the treaty and put millions of lives at risk.
HUDSON: The Federation believes that it can solve every problem with a treaty, but out here, on the frontier, without the power of the Federation to back them up, a treaty is only a piece of paper. 
SISKO: Do you have evidence that the Central Command has violated the treaty? 
HUDSON: Not yet, but we will. 
SISKO: If you're depending on Gul Dukat for proof, you're going to be disappointed. 
HUDSON: We'll find out, won't we. 
SISKO: I want him back, Cal. 
HUDSON: He's not here. 
SISKO: Then where is he? 
HUDSON: I never thought I'd see the day when you'd side with a Cardassian against me. 
SISKO: Damn it, Cal. I'm on your side. 
HUDSON: You've got a funny way of showing it, Ben. 
SISKO: I'm trying to stop you from making one of the biggest mistakes of your life. The Federation believes in the treaty. If you destroy it, Starfleet will come after you and they won't be satisfied until you're behind bars. If we work together to end the violence 
HUDSON: The violence will never end as long as the Central Command continues to smuggle weapons to their colonies. I wish there were a better way to handle this thing. I really do. Nobody wants peace any more than the Maquis. 
SISKO: And you're willing to blow up Cardassian ships to get it. 
HUDSON: The Bok'Nor will never smuggle weapons again. 
SISKO: And its crewmembers won't be returning home to their families either. Look, you say that the Central Command is behind the smuggling. Fine. Let's prove it. 
HUDSON: How? 
SISKO: We'll go to Cardassia, find the evidence you need to back up your claim, and when we do, we'll take it to the Federation 
HUDSON: No. The Federation abandoned us. Told us to take care of ourselves. Well, that's what we intend to do, Ben. But you, you could be invaluable to us. Let us use your station. 
SISKO: For what? 
HUDSON: A maintenance facility for our ships. 
SISKO: I can't allow that. 
HUDSON: Every week innocent people are being murdered by the Cardassians. I will not allow those deaths to go unpunished. 
SISKO: You don't want peace, Cal. You want revenge. 
HUDSON: I prefer to call it retaliation. I'm sorry we won't be working together, Benjamin. It would've been nice. Like old times. 
KIRA: Commander! 
HUDSON: Sorry, Ben. 
(Hudson shoots Sisko, and the other Maquis shoot Kira and Bashir.) 
HUDSON: Okay, let's go. Knowing Ben's temper when he wakes up, we won't want to be here. Come on. Let's move out. 
[Corridor]
SISKO: Lieutenant, I want to speak with the Cardassian Central Command. 
DAX: Then you're in luck. Legate Parn will be arriving within the hour. 
SISKO: A Legate? I feel honoured. While I'm waiting, I'll talk with Starfleet. 
DAX: Admiral Necheyev's already here. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Chief, The Maquis must have transferred Dukat off their ship before they reached that asteroid. I want to know where they've hid him. 
O'BRIEN: I can retrace their warp trail, see if they met up with any other ships. 
SISKO: Do it. 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: Admiral. 
NECHEYEV: Commander, the Cardassian Central Command has gone on military alert in response to the kidnapping of Gul Dukat. 
SISKO: I'm not surprised. 
NECHEYEV: This Security Chief of yours, the shape-shifter. 
SISKO: Odo. 
NECHEYEV: Odo. Are you sure you wouldn't be better off with a Starfleet officer heading your security team. 
SISKO: Admiral, I have complete faith in Odo's ability to do his job. 
NECHEYEV: If you say so, Commander. 
SISKO: I do. And as for Gul Dukat, I assure you we're taking all possible steps to locate him. 
NECHEYEV: Good. Keep me informed of your progress. 
SISKO: I will. But Admiral, there's a bigger issue here than rescuing Dukat. 
NECHEYEV: And what is that? 
SISKO: The Maquis. 
NECHEYEV: The Maquis are a bunch of irresponsible hotheads. 
SISKO: These hotheads are responsible for the bombing of the Bok'Nor. 
NECHEYEV: I'm aware of that, Commander. We never should've allowed those colonists to remain on the Cardassian side of the Demilitarised zone. 
SISKO: Well they're there, Admiral, and they're not leaving. 
NECHEYEV: What about Commander Hudson? He's lived with these people. What's his analysis of the situation? 
SISKO: I'll have to ask him. 
NECHEYEV: You do that. And Commander, I want you to find the Maquis. Talk to them. Remind them that they're citizens of the Federation. That it is imperative that we preserve the treaty with the Cardassians. 
SISKO: A treaty the Cardassians may not be honouring. 
NECHEYEV: Are you questioning Federation policy, Commander? 
SISKO: All I know is that the situation in the Demilitarised zone is deteriorating rapidly. 
NECHEYEV: Personally, I think you're overstating the problem. Establish a dialogue with the Maquis. They're still Federation citizens. I'm sure they'll listen to reason. Good luck, Commander. 
(Necheyev leaves and Kira comes up the stairs) 
SISKO: Establish a dialogue? What the hell does she think I've been trying to do? 
KIRA: Commander? 
SISKO: Just because a group of people belongs to the Federation it does not mean that they are saints. 
KIRA: Excuse me? 
SISKO: Do you know what the trouble is? 
KIRA: No. 
SISKO: The trouble is Earth. 
KIRA: Really? 
SISKO: On Earth there is no poverty, no crime, no war. You look out the window of Starfleet headquarters and you see paradise. Well, it's easy to be a saint in paradise, but the Maquis do not live in paradise. Out there in the Demilitarised zone, all the problems haven't been solved yet. Out there, there are no saints, just people. Angry, scared, determined people who are going to do whatever it takes to survive whether it meets with Federation approval or not. 
KIRA: Makes sense to me. 
SISKO: I'm glad someone understands. 
KIRA: Legate Parn's ship just put in at docking bay five. Maybe you'd like to give the same speech to him. 
SISKO: I just might do that. 
ODO [OC]: Odo to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead, Constable. 
ODO [OC]: I think you'd better get down to Security. I've caught one of the Vulcan's accomplices. 
[Holding cell]
QUARK: I assure you, I had no idea that Sakonna was planning to kidnap Gul Dukat. 
ODO: Really? Then perhaps you could explain why the two of you were spending so much time together. 
QUARK: Surely it's no crime keeping company with a beautiful female. You ought to try it, Odo. It might improve your disposition. 
ODO: Do you expect us to believe that a Vulcan would be interested in you for your lobes? 
QUARK: Vulcans are a species that appreciate good ears. Commander, this is very embarrassing, having to discuss my personal life in such surroundings. 
SISKO: Embarrassment is going to be the least of your problems unless you tell me what kind of business arrangement you had with this woman. 
QUARK: All right. But first I want to make it clear that I was led astray by Sakonna's feminine wiles. 
ODO: Save the excuses, Quark. Just tell us what you were up to. 
QUARK: Sakonna was in the market for certain items which I was able to obtain. At a considerable discount, I might add. 
SISKO: What items? 
ODO: We're waiting. 
QUARK: Let's see. Where to begin? She wanted some deflector shields, navigational arrays, maybe a couple of hundred photon torpedoes. 
SISKO: Photon torpedoes! 
QUARK: And pulse cannons and some high energy disrupters. 
ODO: Weapons. You sold weapons to a terrorist group. 
QUARK: I did not. The Pygorians sold them the weapons. I merely made some introductions. Besides, I hadn't even heard of the Maquis until after Dukat was kidnapped. 
SISKO: I want a complete list of every weapon she purchased. 
QUARK: Of course. And if you need some one to testify against Sakonna in court, I'd be more than willing. 
ODO: Would you? 
QUARK: In a second. And let me know if there's anyone else who needs testifying against. I'll tell you one thing, Commander, Sakonna was on a tight clock. Whatever she needed those weapons for, it's going to happen within the next few days. 
SISKO: Just get me the list. 
ODO: Sir? I assume you'll be going out to search for Dukat again? 
SISKO: As soon as O'Brien tells us where to look. 
ODO: As Chief of Security, I'd like to go along. 
SISKO: I'll be happy to have you along. 
ODO: One other thing. How long do I keep him in here? 
SISKO: Forever. 
(Sisko leaves) 
QUARK: Odo. 
(Odo leaves) 
QUARK: This isn't funny. Odo! 
[Promenade]
KIRA: Commander, this is Legate Parn. He insisted on seeing you immediately. 
PARN: Because my business here is crucial. It demands immediate attention. And as a member of the Cardassian Central Command I must assure you, Commander, that what we have to discuss is most crucial indeed. 
SISKO: I understand. I assure you we are doing everything we can to find Gul Dukat. 
PARN: Please, Commander, your efforts are appreciated but unnecessary. You see, Central Command has learned that Gul Dukat was the leader of a small group of misguided officers who were funnelling weapons to our colonies in the Demilitarised zone. 
KIRA: The Maquis are right. The Cardassian settlers are being supplied by the Central Command. 
PARN: Dukat and the others were operating entirely without our knowledge. Central Command would never sanction anything that would violate our treaty with the Federation. We've arrested Dukat's co-conspirators and they shall be dealt with accordingly. 
SISKO: Where does that leave Dukat? 
PARN: With the Maquis, where he belongs. 
SISKO: Are you saying you don't want him back? 
PARN: I assume the Maquis will execute him for his crimes. 
SISKO: I wouldn't be surprised. 
PARN: Well then, I don't see what difference it makes whether we do it or they do it. 
KIRA: How do we know they won't use Dukat's death as an excuse to send troops into the Demilitarised zone? 
PARN: I can assure you, Commander, that there shall be no retaliation. The Cardassians have no desire to go to war again with the Federation. You have my word. 
KIRA: Your word? 
SISKO: Major. I've found our little talk very enlightening. 
PARN: I hoped you would. 
SISKO: Unfortunately, I have some business to attend to, but I do hope you'll take the time to enjoy the station. 
PARN: Thank you, Commander, but I too must attend to my business. Besides, I am afraid this place has lost its charm since the last time I was here. 
(Parn leaves through the airlock) 
KIRA: I don't believe a word he said. 
SISKO: Neither do I. But he did tell me something that I needed to know. Cal was right. The Central Command is smuggling weapons into the Demilitarised zone. 
[Ops]
DAX: We just received a report that three Federation settlers were killed on Hakton Seven. The Cardassians claim it was in response to the destruction of the Bok'Nor. 
SISKO: Which gives the Maquis a new excuse to strike back. Chief, what have you found? 
O'BRIEN: Based on the residual subspace distortion of their warp drive, I was able to plot the course of the Maquis ship that took Dukat. As you can see, long range sensors show no signs of any other vessels travelling along that route. 
SISKO: All right. They didn't transfer him to another ship. What about a planet? 
O'BRIEN: It's possible. Their course took them past five M Class planets. I've downloaded their coordinates into the Rio Grande's computer. 
SISKO: Good work. Sisko to Odo. 
ODO [OC]: Yes, Commander. 
SISKO: Find Doctor Bashir and meet me immediately at landing pad C. 
ODO [OC]: On our way. 
KIRA: Commander, you know there's no reason to go after Dukat. I mean, you heard Legate Parn. They don't want him back. 
SISKO: Are you suggesting we leave him to the Maquis? 
KIRA: Why risk our lives over someone who's caused so many deaths? The way I see it, he's getting exactly what he deserves. 
(Sisko steps onto the turbolift.) 
SISKO: The Central Command wants him dead. That's reason enough for us to want him alive. Landing pad C. 
[Caves]
SAKONNA: My mind to your mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. My mind to your mind. Your thoughts to my thoughts. My mind to your mind. 
AMAROS: What is wrong? 
DUKAT: It's not working. That is what's wrong. 
SAKONNA: This is quite puzzling. I am unable to establish a mind meld. It would appear he has the ability to shield his thoughts. 
DUKAT: It's simply a matter of discipline. 
AMAROS: Now what do we do? 
SAKONNA: I will rest a while, and then I will try again. 
DUKAT: You people really do not do this very well, do you? Now, on Cardassia we know how to extract information, though it can get a bit unpleasant, and we all know how the Federation dislikes unpleasantness. 
AMAROS: I share very few sentiments with the Federation. 
DUKAT: Oh, that's right. You're renegades, aren't you? Or so you'd like to think. Unfortunately, the Federation has taught you your lessons all too well. You simply lack the commitment it takes to do what is necessary. 
AMAROS: You tell that to the crew of the Bok'Nor. 
DUKAT: Anyone can blow up a ship. Ha! But to look your enemy in the eye, knowing you'll remember his face for the rest of your life. Now that takes a stomach much stronger than you'll ever have. 
AMAROS: We'll see about that. 
SAKONNA: No. He's right. We do not possess the Cardassian gift for inflicting pain. 
DUKAT: There, you see? 
SAKONNA: Nor would we want such a gift. 
AMAROS: But we do need to know when the Central Command is sending its next weapons shipment. So if it's all the same to you, Sakonna, I'll take over this interrogation. Then we can find out just how committed I am. 
SISKO: I don't think anyone's that interested. Put down your weapons. We're not here to fight you. 
AMAROS: If that is true, then you will let us go about our business. 
SISKO: I'm not leaving without Dukat. 
AMAROS: Then you're not leaving. 
BASHIR: Look, we're all on the same side here. We all want to stop the arms shipments. Why not work together? 
DUKAT: Will you stop talking and shoot them. 
SISKO: No. That's not what we want. 
DUKAT: What are you waiting for? 
SISKO: Put down your weapons. 
ODO: Do as he says. 
DUKAT: Shoot them! 
(Dukat knocks down Sakonna, Amaros fires, others follow. Bashir stuns one Maquis, Sisko two. Amaros tries to run up the ladder and Odo literally lassoes him. Dukat grabs Amaros then Sisko gets to Dukat.) 
SISKO: Let him go. I said, let him go! Odo, get these people secured on the runabout. 
ODO: With pleasure, Commander. 
SISKO: Except this one. 
AMAROS: You mean I'm free to go? 
SISKO: Tell Cal Hudson I haven't told Starfleet anything yet. Tell him we can still solve this thing together, but we're running out of time. Tell him I still have his uniform. He can have it back anytime he wants. 
[Guest quarters]
(Dukat unstops a bottle and dribbles the thick kanar into his glass when the doorbell rings.) 
DUKAT: Enter. 
SISKO: I just came by to see how you were doing. 
DUKAT: I find a good meal extremely relaxing, especially after a difficult day. 
SISKO: So do I. 
DUKAT: Really? I wonder what else we have in common. 
SISKO: Very little, I imagine. 
DUKAT: Other than the fact that you have my office. Tell me, what's going to happen with your prisoners? 
SISKO: They'll be tried for their crimes under the Federation Code of Justice. 
DUKAT: And if they're found innocent? 
SISKO: I doubt that they will, but if they are, they'll be set free. 
DUKAT: How barbaric. On Cardassia, the verdict is always known before the trial begins. And it's always the same. 
SISKO: In that case, why bother with a trial at all? 
DUKAT: Because the people demand it. They enjoy watching justice triumph over evil every time. They find it comforting. 
SISKO: Isn't there ever a chance you might try an innocent man by mistake? 
DUKAT: Cardassians don't make mistakes. 
SISKO: I'll have to remember that. 
DUKAT: Commander, one thing does puzzle me. Surely the Central Command was informed of my kidnapping. 
SISKO: They learned about it almost as soon as it happened. 
DUKAT: Then why was I rescued by you? Why wasn't the station surrounded by Cardassian ships demanding my release? 
SISKO: We did receive a visit from Legate Parn. 
DUKAT: Ah. I'm sure he made some rather ugly threats on my behalf. 
SISKO: He said that you were the one responsible for smuggling weapons into the Demilitarised zone, that if the Maquis did not execute you, then the Central Command would. After a comforting trial, I'm sure. 
DUKAT: It seems my relationship with the Central Command has somewhat deteriorated. I knew this was inevitable the moment we withdrew from Bajor. 
SISKO: Are you saying they blame you for the withdrawal? 
DUKAT: Ha. There are those who believe I should have killed every last Bajoran while I had the chance. Oh well, it's too late for that, I'm afraid. Commander, it seems I was mistaken 
SISKO: Mistaken about the arms shipment? 
DUKAT: It appears I was misinformed. I'm beginning to believe the Central Command is indeed smuggling weapons into the Demilitarised zone after all. 
SISKO: Then you really didn't know, did you? 
DUKAT: No. They never bothered to tell me. If I help you stop the smuggling, will you help me stop the Maquis? 
SISKO: You have a deal. I've scheduled a staff meeting for oh nine hundred. 
DUKAT: I'll be there. Commander, thank you for coming to my rescue. 
SISKO: I'm sure you'd have done the same for me. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Constable, you have the list of weapons Sakonna bought from Quark? 
ODO: I do, and quite a list it is. Six ship-mounted high energy disrupters, three particle accelerators, two hundred photon torpedoes and a dozen pulse cannons. 
KIRA: With that kind of firepower, the Bajorans could've launched a full-scale assault on Cardassia. 
DUKAT: And lost. 
O'BRIEN: Sounds like the Maquis have had their fill of border skirmishes. They're ready for something bigger. 
SISKO: According to Quark, they're planning their first attack any day now. 
DAX: Have you been able to make any headway with Sakonna? 
ODO: Have you ever tried to interrogate a Vulcan, Lieutenant? 
DAX: No. 
ODO: Neither did I until today. I wouldn't advise it. That calm measured voice that tells you nothing, that impassive stare. It can be quite frustrating. 
DUKAT: Perhaps I could question her? 
SISKO: I don't think so. 
DUKAT: Pity. I like a challenge. 
KIRA: You want a challenge? Finding out how the Central Command is getting weapons into the Demilitarised zone. 
DUKAT: My guess would be by way of a Xepolite free trader. 
DAX: Why the Xepolites? 
DUKAT: Because the Xepolites have often served as intermediaries for us in the past. 
SISKO: So have the Lissepians. 
DUKAT: Ah, but the Xepolites have never been caught. 
[Runabout Mekong]
O'BRIEN: The Xepolite ship isn't responding to our hail, sir. 
DUKAT: Of course they're not responding. Would you respond to a Federation hail if your cargo bays were full of Cardassian weapons? 
SISKO: Scan their ship, Major. Let's see what they're carrying. 
KIRA: Our scanners can't penetrate their hull. 
O'BRIEN: No wonder. It's composed of a sensor reflective material. They obviously value their privacy. 
SISKO: Chief, you and Gul Dukat remain here. Major, you're with me. Let's go see if it's their privacy or their guilt they're trying to protect. 
O'BRIEN: Sorry, Commander, you can't transport over. They just raised their shields. 
DUKAT: You're wasting time. Xepolite ships can reach a maximum speed of warp nine point eight. If they decide to run, we'll never catch them. 
KIRA: Well what would you suggest? 
DUKAT: I would breach their shields with my phasers and destroy their bridge. 
KIRA: Killing everyone there. 
DUKAT: That's correct. Then I would lock onto the ship with my tractor beam and tow it and its cargo back to the station. Very simple, very effective. 
SISKO: And needlessly bloody. 
KIRA: Sounds like a Cardassian plan to me. 
SISKO: Chief, fire a phaser over their bow. Let's see if we can get their attention. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. That woke them up. They're hailing us. 
SISKO: On my monitor, Chief. 
DROFO [on monitor]: I am Drofo Awa, Hetman of this vessel. What do you want from us? 
SISKO: I'm Commander Benjamin Sisko of the United Federation of Planets. We believe you're carrying Cardassian weapons to their colonies in the Demilitarised zone. 
DROFO [on monitor]: Well then you believe wrong, Commander. My ship is carrying five kilotons of Regreein wheat husks, nothing more. 
SISKO: Five kilotons. That's a lot of wheat husks. With your permission I'd like to come aboard and see what that looks like. 
DROFO [on monitor]: Permission denied. And if there's any attempt to board my vessel, I will consider it an act of piracy. Is that clear? 
SISKO: Call it anything you like, but you're not going anywhere until we search your ship. 
DROFO [on monitor]: In that case, Commander 
DUKAT: In that case, you will do exactly as you're told. You will allow us free access to your ship, so that we can verify that you are indeed carrying Cardassian weapons into the Demilitarised zone. You will then follow us back to Deep Space Nine, where your cargo will be confiscated and you will make a full confession detailing everything you know about the smuggling of weapons into the Demilitarised zone. Then you will then sign that confession, after which you and your ship will be allowed on your way. Is that clear? 
DROFO [on monitor]: I don't understand. You're a Cardassian. 
DUKAT: I'm not just any Cardassian. I'm Gul Dukat, Commander of the Second Order. You have fifteen seconds to lower your shields or we'll destroy your ship. 
DROFO [on monitor]: No, wait! 
DUKAT: Ten seconds. 
DROFO [on monitor]: It's not that simple. 
DUKAT: Seven seconds. 
DROFO [on monitor]: I've already been paid! 
DUKAT: Four seconds. 
DROFO [on monitor]: Stop counting! Stop counting. 
O'BRIEN: He's lowering his shields. 
DROFO [on monitor]: I'll await your arrival, Commander. 
(transmission ends) 
DUKAT: I think you can handle it from here. 
[Holding cell]
QUARK: I hope you're happy. 
SAKONNA: I am a Vulcan. My emotional state is irrelevant. 
QUARK: Well I'm a Ferengi, and my emotional state is very relevant, and right now I'm miserable and it's all your fault. 
SAKONNA: You were well paid for your assistance. 
QUARK: Not well enough. Look, I know the Cardassians can't be trusted. I know the Central Command would like nothing better than to destroy the Federation colonies in the Demilitarised zone. 
SAKONNA: Then you agree with our position? 
QUARK: Not for a second. 
SAKONNA: Why not? 
QUARK: Because your position is illogical. 
SAKONNA: Do you propose to lecture me on logic? 
QUARK: I don't want to, but you leave me no choice. It all comes down to the third Rule of Acquisition. You don't know that one, do you? 
SAKONNA: I am not well versed in Ferengi philosophy. 
QUARK: Remind me to give you a copy of the Rules. You never know when they'll come in handy. Now, the third rule clearly states, 'Never spend more for an acquisition than you have to.' 
SAKONNA: Logical, but I fail to see how that applies to my situation. 
QUARK: You want to acquire peace. Fine. Peace is good. But how much are you willing to pay for it? 
SAKONNA: Whatever it costs. 
QUARK: That's the kind of irresponsible spending that causes so many business ventures to fail. You're forgetting the third rule. Right now peace could be bought at a bargain price and you don't even realise it. 
SAKONNA: I find this very confusing. 
QUARK: Then I'll make it so simple that even a Vulcan can understand. The Central Command has been caught red-handed smuggling weapons to their settlers. So, every ship that approaches the Demilitarised zone will be searched. Without the support of the Central Command, the Cardassian settlers won't be so eager to fight. 
SAKONNA: You forget the weapons they already have. 
QUARK: They have weapons. You have weapons. Everyone has weapons. But right now, no one has a clear advantage. So the price of peace is at an all-time low. This is the perfect time to sit down and hammer out an agreement. Don't you get it? Attacking the Cardassians now will only escalate the conflict and make peace more expensive in the long run. Now, I ask you, is that logical? 
[Guest quarters]
DUKAT: A concealed weapons depot located within a civilian population centre? 
SISKO: According to Sakonna, the Maquis are going to attack the depot sometime within the next fifty-two hours. 
DUKAT: But she didn't tell you on which colony the depot's hidden? 
SISKO: She says she doesn't know. 
DUKAT: How convenient. 
SISKO: I believe her. 
DUKAT: Why? Because Vulcans don't lie? 
SISKO: As a rule, they don't. 
DUKAT: They don't blow up ships either, as a rule. But let's assume she is telling the truth. I take it you haven't shared this information with the Central Command? 
SISKO: No. I haven't. 
DUKAT: Good. Because they would never trust you to handle this matter alone. 
SISKO: But they would be able to tell me where the weapons depot is located. 
DUKAT: Leave that to me. I may no longer be a favourite with Central Command, but I know people who are. 
SISKO: In the meantime, I'll go to Volan Three, try to talk some sense into the Maquis. 
DUKAT: And if you can't? 
SISKO: Don't worry, Dukat. I told you I'd stop the Maquis, and one way or another I will. 
[Meeting house]
KOBB: I've also been recently informed that thirty five people had to be hospitalised on Umoth Eight after eating from public food replicators. Sabotage is suspected. 
AMAROS: Then from now on, guards should be posted at all public replicators throughout the colonies. 
KOBB: Thank you. Now, about the new curfew. 
(Enter Sisko) 
KOBB: Commander Sisko, what a pleasant surprise. If you'll just wait a moment, I'll finish up this meeting and we can talk privately. 
SISKO: That won't be necessary. I want everyone to hear what I have to say. I don't know how many of you here actually belong to the Maquis. Those of you who don't probably have friends who do. So please make sure you pass along what I'm about to tell you. There is a treaty currently in place between Cardassia and the Federation. If you make yourself the enemy of Cardassia, you make yourself the enemy of the Federation. 
AMAROS: That is outrageous! 
KOBB: Agreed. 
SISKO: I know the Maquis is planning to attack a Cardassian weapons depot. My advice to them and to you is to call it off, because I'll be waiting there and I'll stop you. 
(the Maquis enter - including a Bolian, a Klingon woman, native Americans.) 
HUDSON: A very rousing speech, Ben. I suppose my best rebuttal would be to kill you. 
SISKO: But you won't. 
(Sisko puts a bag on the table.) 
HUDSON: What is this? 
SISKO: Your uniform. 
HUDSON: You always were an optimist. 
SISKO: I have reason to be. The way I see it, now that we've stopped the shipments of Cardassian weapons, there's no longer any need for the Maquis. You and I can work together to reach a peace agreement with the Cardassian colonies. 
HUDSON: It's too late for that. 
SISKO: Is it? 
HUDSON: We're in a war here, and I intend to win it. I could use your help, Ben, and I'm asking you as a friend. 
SISKO: As a friend, I have to say no. If you attack that depot, you'll have to get through me first. 
HUDSON: I hope not. I truly hope not. 
(Hudson turns to leave, then phasers his uniform into atoms) 
[Ops]
DUKAT: The Bryma Colony. According to my sources, that's the location of the weapons depot. 
SISKO: Then our objective is simple. Prevent the Maquis ships from reaching Bryma. 
DAX: We're going to have to intercept them before they're picked up by the colony's sensors. 
KIRA: Good point. If the Cardassian settlers even suspect they might come under attack, they'll send a message to Cardassia asking for reinforcements. 
O'BRIEN: I don't care how much the Cardassians care about the treaty. If the Maquis launch an assault against a civilian target, the Central Command will have to respond. 
SISKO: We could wind up with a full scale war on our hands. We have to stop the Maquis. Our runabouts will take up a defensive position just outside the Bryma colony's sensor range. 
O'BRIEN: The best way to detect incoming ships would be to hide a couple of dozen sensor probes in the system's Oort Cloud. That way, we can spot the Maquis no matter what route they take. 
BASHIR: How many Maquis ships are we expecting? 
ODO: According to Sakonna, they only have two ships capable of mounting the weapons she purchased. 
BASHIR: So we'll have three ships and they'll have two. The odds are in our favour, anyway. 
O'BRIEN: That's not going to give us much of an advantage, Julian. The colonists are used to being outnumbered. They'll fight just that much harder. 
DAX: How do you propose to stop them? 
DUKAT: What's that human expression? Shoot to kill. 
SISKO: We'll try to stop them with words if possible, with force if necessary. 
KIRA: So if they fire at us, we have orders to shoot back? 
SISKO: That's correct. We'll target their warp engines and weapons arrays, try to disable them. 
DUKAT: How noble. I hope the Maquis will be as obliging to you. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
SISKO: Rio Grande to Mekong and Orinoco. How do you read me? 
[Runabout Orinoco]
KIRA: Orinoco here. You're loud and clear. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Mekong here. 
[Runabout Mekong]
O'BRIEN: Our communications channel is fully operational and secure. The remote sensor probes I set up still haven't detected any sign of the Maquis ships. 
BASHIR: Do you really think they're coming? They know we're waiting for them, after all. 
DAX [OC]: It's possible they changed the 
[Runabout Orinoco]
DAX: Time frame of their attack. Postponed it a day or a week. 
SISKO [OC]: They'll be here. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
SISKO: The longer they wait, the greater the chance the weapons depot will be moved to another location. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Commander, I'm picking up two Federation ships headed our way. SISKO: Sisko to Hudson. This isn't going to work, Cal. Turn those ships around before someone gets hurt. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: Please, Ben. Don't make me open fire on you. 
[Maquis ship]
AMAROS: He's not going to listen. 
HUDSON: Initiating evasive manoeuvres. Signal Niles to follow my lead. 
AMAROS: Right. 
[Runabout Mekong]
O'BRIEN: Commander, they're making a run for it. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
SISKO: Lock on tractor beams. 
[Maquis ship]
(Thump) 
HUDSON: Damn it. 
AMAROS: They've got Niles, too. 
HUDSON: Let us go, Ben. 
SISKO [on monitor]: You know I can't do that. 
HUDSON: Then I suggest you duck. Fire on their beam emitter. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
(Bang) 
DUKAT: What are you waiting for? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: We're losing tractor lock. 
KIRA [OC]: They're breaking away. 
SISKO: Commence firing. 
[Maquis ship]
AMAROS: Niles' propulsion system is down. He's drifting. 
HUDSON: We'll have to even the odds. 
[Runabout Orinoco]
DAX: They've hit our navigation array. I've lost attitude control. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
DAX [OC: Attempting to compensate with manual thrusters. 
KIRA: It's not working. Thrusters are still locked. 
SISKO: Hang on. Chief, you go after the Orinoco. I'll handle Hudson. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Right. 
[Runabout Mekong]
O'BRIEN: Major. 
KIRA [OC]: Yes, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: lower your shields. We'll beam you out of there. 
KIRA [OC]: You've got it. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
DUKAT: They're coming back around. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: It's just you and me, Ben. 
SISKO: I can't let you start a war. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: I'm not turning back. 
SISKO: And you're not going forward. 
(They swap photons and phaser shots) 
[Maquis ship]
AMAROS: We're hit. Our photon torpedo tubes are out. 
HUDSON: Switch to phasers. Come about. Heading one one five mark two three six. 
AMAROS: Got it. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
DUKAT: We've taken a direct hit on our primary fusion core. 
SISKO: Initiating emergency core shutdown. 
DUKAT: The port nacelle is flooded with ionised deuterium. We've lost both warp and impulse engines. 
SISKO: We still have manoeuvring thrusters. 
[Maquis ship]
AMAROS: They're coming back around. Use the phasers. 
HUDSON: I can't. They've knocked out the power couplings to our weapons array. 
AMAROS: What do we do? 
HUDSON: The only thing we can do. We get the hell out of here. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
DUKAT: He's turning away. Now's your chance. Fire. 
SISKO: It's over, Cal. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: For now, anyway. Next time tell Starfleet to send someone else. It doesn't feel right, us shooting at one another. 
SISKO: There won't be a next time. Stand down. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: I don't think so, Ben. 
DUKAT: He's getting away. 
SISKO: You run now, I won't be able to protect you. Starfleet'll track you down. You won't be safe anywhere, not even in the colonies. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: Don't be so sure. I have a lot of friends here. Besides, I've got to help the Maquis finish this thing. 
SISKO: You'll be an outlaw, a hunted man. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: Maybe. 
SISKO: You're throwing away your entire life. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: And beginning a new one. 
DUKAT: What are you waiting for? He's helpless. Finish him. 
HUDSON [on monitor]: I'm going to miss you, Ben. You've been a good friend. 
(Transmission ends.) 
SISKO: So have you. 
DUKAT: No! I thought you were strong, Commander. You're not. You're a fool. A sentimental fool. 
SISKO: I said I'd stop the Maquis and I have. But I will not kill a good man for trying to defend his home. 
DUKAT: You disappoint me. 
SISKO: Don't expect me to lose any sleep over it. Mister O'Brien, when you get a chance, I could use come help with these engines. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Yes, sir. 
[Commander's office]
KIRA: Commander, Gul Dukat has left the station. 
SISKO: I'm sure he's glad to be going home. 
KIRA: Chief O'Brien says that the Orinoco and Rio Grande will be up and running in a few days. 
SISKO: Thank you, Major. I just got a communiqu� from Starfleet congratulating me on my good work, and thanking me for preserving the peace with the Cardassians. 
KIRA: You deserve it. You prevented a war. 
SISKO: Did I? Or did I just delay the inevitable? 

