Episode Number: 568
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Till Death Us Do Part
Till Death Us Do Part
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 12 Apr, 1999
Last time on Star Trek Deep Space Nine
(The Founder gives a piece of her flaking 'skin' to Weyoun for research.) 
KIRA: The Rotarran and the Koraga were ambushed by a Dominion patrol near the Badlands. 
EZRI: Worf was commanding the Koraga. 
KIRA: It didn't make it. 
SISKO: Let's get married. 
KASIDY: Do you mean it? 
SISKO: I love you. 
DAMAR: Does Weyoun know you're here? 
DUKAT: I see he still has you under his thumb. 
KIRA: We have a problem. It's Ezri. There's a runabout missing. 
O'BRIEN: She must've gotten it into her head to go looking for Worf. 
EZRI: They're coming in behind us. 
(The Jem'Hadar shoot Ezri and Worf down.) 
FOUNDER: The vaccine. How is it progressing? 
WEYOUN: I regret that it failed to stabilise the latest sample you provided. 
EZRI: I can't believe I'm stuck here with you. 
WORF: Perhaps you would rather be on the station with Captain Boday. 
DUKAT: That surgeon you recommended does excellent work. What do you think? 
(Worf and Ezri are captured by the Breen.) 
SARAH: Your path is a difficult one. She can not share it with you. 
SISKO: I want to spend my life with her. 
SARAH: If you do, you will know nothing but sorrow. 
And now, the continuation.
[Captain's office]
JAKE: Did they tell you why you can't marry Kasidy? 
SISKO: The Prophets didn't say that I can't, they just said that I shouldn't. 
JAKE: It's the same thing. I don't see why it's any of their business. 
SISKO: Everything I do is their business. 
JAKE: Have you told Kasidy? 
SISKO: No, she's on a cargo run. She won't be back for a couple of days. 
JAKE: And when she gets back, what are you going to tell her? That some Prophet who says that she's your mother, Sarah, told you not to marry her? 
SISKO: Jake, you're not making me feel better. 
KIRA [OC]: Captain Sisko, Kai Winn is here to see you. 
SISKO: Send her in. We'll talk later. 
(Jake leaves by a corridor door, Winn and her entourage enter.) 
WINN: Emissary, congratulations. 
SISKO: Eminence. 
WINN: I'm so happy for you. This wedding is a momentous event for Bajor. I want to be sure the proceedings reflect its importance, so I've come to assist in the preparations. 
SISKO: That's very kind of you, but I'm not sure that it's necessary. 
WINN: Well, you don't have to thank me. I'm glad to do it. I understand you've asked Vedek Telna to perform the ceremony. Perhaps you thought I would be unavailable, but since I'm here, I think you'll agree that it would be more appropriate for me to do it. I'll talk to Vedek Telna, and I'm sure he'd be willing to step aside. Well, these are joyful days indeed. You've given the Prophets reason to smile. Is there something wrong, Emissary? You seem troubled. 
SISKO: The Prophets came to me in a vision. 
WINN: I see. 
SISKO: They warned me that I was going to have to face a great trial. 
WINN: Did they say what it would be? 
SISKO: I'm afraid not. The Prophets don't always make themselves clear. 
WINN: I wouldn't know, as they've never spoken to me directly. In any case, you have always been willing to do whatever it is they ask. Well, I pray that they'll give you the strength to face your trial. I sense you're going to need it. Emissary. 
SISKO: Eminence. 
[Ops]
KIRA: May I show you to your quarters? 
WINN: Well, thank you, my child. 
(And Winn staggers on the steps as she goes to Prophet Limbo.) 
[Promenade]
(Outside the Temple.) 
SOLBOR: Her pagh is strong. 
WINN: Solbor? 
KIRA: She will serve us well. 
(Sisko is standing there too.) 
WINN: Prophets. (she kneels) I have waited so long for you to speak to me. How can I serve you? 
SISKO: The Sisko has faltered. You must bring the Restoration. 
WINN: The Restoration? 
SOLBOR: Bajor's fate rests with you. 
WINN: Tell me what to do. 
KIRA: The Guide will reveal the way. 
WINN: What Guide? 
SISKO: He will come to you. 
WINN: How will I know him? 
SOLBOR: He will have the wisdom of the land. 
WINN: Of the land? I don't understand. 
KIRA: Only you can bring the Restoration. 
SISKO: Bajor's fate rests with you. 
(The Vision ends.) 
[Ops]
KIRA: Eminence, are you all right? What happened? 
WINN: The Prophets. They spoke to me. 
[Breen cell]
WORF: They will be feeding us soon. If we could position ourselves on both sides of the door, we might be able to disarm the first Breen that comes through. 
EZRI: Worf, face it. The 'guard, my cellmate is ill' trick didn't work. Neither did your 'I'll make a tool and short circuit the door' idea. 
WORF: We must not give up. The first duty of every captured officer is to attempt escape. 
(The door opens. The first Breen points a weapon at Worf, the second throws tins to the pair.) EZRI: What's the special today? (she looks in the tin) Algae paste. My favourite. 
(The Breen leave.) 
EZRI: I wonder what the Breen look like under those helmets? 
WORF: They say no one has ever seen one and lived to speak of it. 
EZRI: Maybe they're all furry. It's supposed to be very cold on Breen. 
WORF: One thing is certain. 
EZRI: They're horrible cooks? 
WORF: They are dangerous. They do not tolerate incursions into their space. During the Second Empire, Chancellor Mow'ga sent a fleet of Klingon ships to conquer their homeworld, and they were never heard from again. We have been travelling for three days. We could be in Breen space by now. 
EZRI: Well, I wouldn't rule out the possibility that they saw our shuttle crash and decided to take us back to Deep Space Nine. 
WORF: You are being humourous. 
EZRI: Not very, I guess. 
WORF: Jadzia also used humour to lift her spirits. 
EZRI: You didn't laugh very much at her jokes, either. 
WORF: You are a lot like her. 
EZRI: In some ways. 
WORF: I thought that I had lost her forever, but you and I will have many years together. 
[Damar's bedroom]
(An empty kanar bottle lies next to someone who is snoring whilst fully clothed.) 
WEYOUN: Damar. Damar! 
(Damar suddenly wakes.) 
DAMAR: What are you doing here? 
WEYOUN: Since you're ignoring your comm. system, I decided to wake you myself. 
DAMAR: I worked late last night. 
WEYOUN: Yes, I can see that. Get yourself cleaned up. We're leaving this afternoon. 
DAMAR: Where are we going? 
WEYOUN: You needn't concern yourself with that. 
DAMAR: Why didn't you tell me that before? I have things to attend to. 
WEYOUN: You mean your business with Dukat? Did you really think I didn't know he was here? Masquerading as a Bajoran. What's he up to this time? 
DAMAR: He wouldn't say. 
WEYOUN: Yet you helped him all the same. Such loyalty. It would be impressive if it wasn't so misplaced. 
(Weyoun leaves. Damar gets up and opens another bottle, but sees himself in a mirror. He has to turn away before he can drink.) 
[Damar's quarters]
DUKAT: Have you arranged my transportation? 
(Damar is cleaned up and packing a bag.) 
DAMAR: And your identity documents. 
DUKAT: Good I knew I could count on you. You don't look well. 
DAMAR: I'm fine. 
DUKAT: What happened to that brave officer I served with? The one who stood at my side while we fought the entire Klingon Empire with a single ship? 
DAMAR: Those were simpler times. 
DUKAT: Those days might be gone, but the man I served with isn't. He's still within you. Reach in and grab hold of him, Damar. Cardassia needs a leader. 
DAMAR: You were its leader once. You could be again. 
DUKAT: The Pah wraiths have shown me that I have different destiny. Good luck, old friend. 
DAMAR: And to you. 
[Promenade]
(Dukat comes out of the airlock and strolls along, completely unrecognised.) 
[Sisko's quarters]
(Kasidy is wearing a white shawl that reaches past her waist.) 
KASIDY: Bajorans consider it good luck for a bride to wear a Navatan shawl. What's the matter? You don't like it? 
SISKO: It's lovely. 
KASIDY: Then why the long face? 
SISKO: We need to talk. 
KASIDY: Why do I have the feeling I'm not going to like this? 
SISKO: There's something I haven't told you. A few days ago, one of the Prophets came to me in a vision. It was Sarah. 
KASIDY: Your mother? What did she want? 
SISKO: She said the path that I was meant to walk is for me alone. That you can't walk it with me. 
KASIDY: Why? 
SISKO: She said I would know nothing but sorrow if I ignored her warning. 
KASIDY: That almost sounds like a threat. 
SISKO: No, it wasn't anything like that. She was worried for me. Like a mother would be. 
KASIDY: What are you going to do? 
SISKO: Kasidy, the Prophets see things that we can't. If she was that concerned, it must be for a good reason. 
KASIDY: You're not answering my question. 
SISKO: Kasidy, I love you and I want to be with you. 
KASIDY: Then be with me, Ben. 
SISKO: I can't. I can't go against the Prophets. (she gives him the shawl.) Kasidy, please, try and understand. 
(Kasidy pus the ring on the coffee table, picks up her bag and leaves.) 
[Breen cell]
EZRI: (dreaming) No! No, no. No! 
WORF: Ezri! 
EZRI: No! 
(She wakes.) 
WORF: It is all right. You were having a bad dream. 
EZRI: Where are we? 
WORF: We're still aboard the Breen ship. 
EZRI: They were chasing me in an ice cave. I was so cold I could barely breathe. 
WORF: Shh. It is over now. 
EZRI: I couldn't get away from them. Every time I looked back they were right behind me. And then one of them grabbed me with this huge claw. 
WORF: The Breen do not have claws. 
EZRI: How do you know? Besides, it was a dream. Dreams are full of things that don't make sense. 
WORF: That is why it is best to ignore them. 
EZRI: How can you say that? Dreams contain valuable insights. Things that don't seem to make sense are actually the key to what your unconscious is trying to tell you. Anyway, I got away from him, but there was nowhere to run. And just when I thought he was about to kill me, he reached up and took off his helmet. 
WORF: And? 
EZRI: And it was Julian. 
WORF: Doctor Bashir? 
EZRI: Isn't that strange? I wonder what it meant? 
WORF: Doctor Bashir is a Breen. 
EZRI: Very funny. The cave could symbolise the womb. Maybe my subconscious is trying to tell me that I need to confront emotions that I've repressed since birth. But which one? I've been born nine times. 
WORF: This is ridiculous. 
EZRI: I'm a counsellor. Analysing dreams is part of my job. 
WORF: Jadzia never talked about her dreams. 
EZRI: Well, I'm not Jadzia, am I? 
(Three Breen enter. Once keeps Ezri back and the other two go for Worf. He refuses to move so they jab him with their electric shock weapons and he collapses. Ezri gets jabbed as well. They drag Worf away.) 
EZRI: Where are you taking him? 
[Winn's quarters]
(Winn is praying in front of a shrine.) 
WINN: Have mercy upon your humble supplicant, and make me worthy of your great task. Grant me the strength not to fail you. 
(She blows out the candles and Solbor enters.) 
SOLBOR: Eminence? 
WINN: Yes? 
SOLBOR: There's a man here who requests an audience with you. 
WINN: Show him in. 
(Dukat enters.) 
SOLBOR: This is Anjohl Tennan, from Relliketh. 
WINN: Welcome, my son. 
DUKAT: Thank you for seeing me, Eminence. 
(Solbor leaves.) 
WINN: How can I help you? 
DUKAT: I've come to ask your blessing, so that I may have prosperity in the coming season. 
WINN: What is it you do? 
DUKAT: I'm just a simple man of the land. 
WINN: Of the land? 
DUKAT: I'm a farmer. I grow moba and 
(Winn grabs his ear and Dukat kneels.) 
WINN: Your pagh is strong, Anjohl. I've been waiting for you. 
(Later, Solbor brings in a tea tray.) 
DUKAT: Oh here, let me help you. It's not right that a Ranjen should be serving a common farmer. 
WINN: Please, sit. You're our guest. 
(Solbor pours.) 
DUKAT: If I told my neighbours I was having tea with the Kai, they'd never believe me. 
WINN: Thank you, Solbor. 
DUKAT: Thank you. 
WINN: Tell me about yourself, Anjohl. You came here to pray for prosperity. Have things been difficult for you? 
(Solbor leaves.) 
DUKAT: Yes. Rogath blight destroyed my entire crop last year. 
WINN: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that. 
DUKAT: Most of the farms in Relliketh fell victim to it. 
WINN: And the land shall be poisoned by a great evil. It's from the ancient texts. Talnot's Prophecy of the Final Days. 
DUKAT: I see. 
WINN: Well, tell me more about this blight. 
DUKAT: Unfortunately the only way to eradicate it is to burn your fields at the first sign of contamination. 
WINN: Go on. 
DUKAT: Then you must let your land lie fallow for a whole season to allow for the restoration of the soil. 
WINN: Restoration? 
DUKAT: The following year, the fields will be fertile again. 
WINN: The poison must be purged away so the land can be reborn. 
DUKAT: Eminence? 
WINN: Do you pray to the Prophets, Anjohl? 
DUKAT: Every day. 
WINN: And have they ever answered you, in a vision, or in your dreams? 
DUKAT: Oh, there have been times when I've thought I could feel their presence. But spoken to me? No. Surely they'd reserve such a blessing for someone like you. 
WINN: You are right. They have spoken to me, and they told me they were going to send you here. 
DUKAT: Me? 
WINN: You've been blessed, Anjohl. They've anointed you to be my guide. 
DUKAT: I don't understand. 
WINN: You are to help me bring about the Restoration of Bajor. 
DUKAT: But surely the Prophets would have chosen someone more worthy than I? 
WINN: You should have more faith in yourself, Anjohl. And in the Prophets. 
DUKAT: Of course. 
WINN: But rest assured, they'll reveal what they want from us, and together we will walk the path they've laid out. 
[Captain's office]
KIRA: The bottom line is, the Chief won't be able to get to it for a few days. 
SISKO: Not good enough. I told General Martok his ships would be repaired by tomorrow. 
KIRA: We have engineering crews working twenty six hours a day. We're doing the best we can. 
SISKO: I know you are. It's just that things are a little complicated for me now. 
KIRA: I can imagine. 
SISKO: Nerys, the Prophets came to me and told me that Kasidy and I are not meant to walk the same path. 
KIRA: Oh, I see. Well, that explains that. I'm sorry. But the Prophets wouldn't ask you to do something like that without a reason. 
SISKO: You would think they would tell me what it is. 
KIRA: It doesn't work like that, and you know that. Well, what they're asking you to do isn't easy, but they've never led you down the wrong path. 
SISKO: Not so far. There's always a first time. To them I'm The Sisko, an instrument to carry out their wishes, but they forget that I am also human, with dreams and wishes of my own. They say that marrying Kasidy is a mistake. Maybe it is, but it's my mistake to make. 
KIRA: I wouldn't go against the Prophets. You're doing the right thing. 
[Jem'Hadar bridge]
WEYOUN: Founder. 
FOUNDER: When do we reach the rendezvous coordinates? 
WEYOUN: Approximately thirty six hours. May I say your plan is brilliant. I'm confident that it will turn the war in our favour. 
FOUNDER: Let's hope that you're right. 
(She leans against a console, exhausted.) 
WEYOUN: Founder? 
FOUNDER: About Damar. I trust he won't be a problem? 
WEYOUN: I'm sure he'll have concerns, but you needn't worry about that. I'll deal with him when the time comes. 
FOUNDER: See that you do. I find him most trying. 
WEYOUN: I'll have the temperature lowered. You'll be more comfortable. 
[Breen cell]
(Worf's turn for the nightmare.) 
WORF: Fight them! Sto'Vo'Kor! 
EZRI: Worf. 
WORF: No! No! I will not dishonour her memory. 
EZRI: What have they done to you? 
WORF: Alexander! 
EZRI: Worf, wake up. Please. 
WORF: Ezri. 
EZRI: Where did they take you? 
WORF: An interrogation chamber. They used some kind of cortical implant to probe my memory. 
EZRI: I wonder what they were trying to find out? 
WORF: I do not know. I lost consciousness. 
EZRI: That's probably a good thing. 
WORF: I should have tried harder to resist them. 
EZRI: Careful. 
WORF: These Breen are without honour. 
EZRI: Worf, sit down please. Have something to eat. 
WORF: This is intolerable! They have us caged up like animals! 
EZRI: Stop it. 
WORF: A Klingon would rather die than be held captive! 
EZRI: What are you going to do? Kill yourself and leave me here alone? 
WORF: This is no time for your jokes! 
EZRI: It's no time for Klingon chest-thumping either. 
(A Breen enters. Worf goes for him and gets zapped multiple times.) 
EZRI: Stop it! 
(They drag Ezri out leaving Worf on the floor, twitching.) 
[Winn's quarters]
(At dinner) 
WINN: More springwine? 
DUKAT: Yes. It's extraordinary. I've never tasted anything like this. 
WINN: It's a rare vintage from before the occupation. I was going to give this bottle to the Emissary as a wedding gift. 
DUKAT: Well, I'm honoured that you would choose to share it with me. 
WINN: Well, I doubt that he would have been able to appreciate it as much, not being a Bajoran. 
DUKAT: I suppose not. The Prophets may have chosen to speak through him, but he's not really one of us, is he? 
WINN: No. No, he isn't. 
DUKAT: There are times when I wonder if he truly understands our people. Still, it's not for me to question why the Prophets chose him as their Emissary. 
WINN: You forget the Prophets chose you to be my guide. You must speak your mind freely, Anjohl. 
DUKAT: The Emissary didn't suffer through the occupation. He has no idea what the Cardassians did to us. Those years left many scars on Bajor's soul. So, how can he help heal what he could never comprehend? 
WINN: I have often asked myself the same question. 
DUKAT: I survived the occupation purely by chance. 
WINN: Tell me. When the Resistance destroyed the Cardassian outpost in Relliketh, Gul Dukat ordered a hundred Bajorans rounded up. His intention was to send us to the capital for public execution. 
WINN: A hundred from Relliketh. When did that occur? 
DUKAT: Just before the great famine. By sheer luck, my transport was rerouted to a labour camp. I learned years later that the dispatcher had misread the orders. 
WINN: His name was Prenar. And he didn't misread the orders. 
DUKAT: How could you know that? 
WINN: I was a Ranjen at that time. I convinced the Vedek who led my order that we needed to take a more active role in the Resistance. He allowed me to remove some gemstones from our tabernacle. I used those to bribe various Cardassians in exchange for some small acts of leniency. Prenar was one of them. I paid him to reroute the transport from Relliketh. 
DUKAT: You saved my life. Even then our fates were linked. 
[Sisko's quarters]
(The model house has a thatched roof. Sisko is lying on the couch staring at it. The doorbell rings twice.) 
SISKO: Yes. 
(Quark enters.) 
QUARK: Sorry to interrupt, but I have something for you. The, er, the item that you ordered. 
(A small box containing a ring with a big gemstone.) 
QUARK: Terellian diamonds aren't that easy to come by, especially with this war on. Needless to say, it was non-refundable. 
SISKO: Thank you, Quark. 
QUARK: It seems a shame to let something so beautiful go to waste. 
[Breen cell]
(Ezri is thrown back in. Like Worf before, she is rambling as if in a nightmare.) 
EZRI: I'm going to help you through this, Garak. I'm not just saying this because I'm your sister. You have a gift. No more algae paste. I'm not like you. I'm not like you, Joran, I'm not a murderer. 
WORF: Shh. It's all right. 
EZRI: I was your wife. Why don't you talk to me? I love you. Kiss me. Kiss me, Julian. 
[Winn's bedroom]
(The comm. interrupts her insomnia) 
WINN: Yes? 
SOLBOR [OC]: Forgive me for disturbing you at this hour, Eminence, but Anjohl is here and he insists on seeing you. 
WINN: I'll be right there. 
[Winn's quarters]
DUKAT: Eminence. I hope I didn't wake you. 
WINN: It's all right. You may go, Solbor. 
SOLBOR: As you wish. 
(Solbor leaves.) 
DUKAT: Something wondrous has happened. I talked with my brother in Relliketh. He told me that this morning, when he went out to inspect the fields, he found moba saplings sprouting from the soil. But it's impossible. We only planted last week. Tell me, could it be a sign? 
WINN: Yes, it is a sign. A sign from the Prophets. They're telling you that your farm will thrive under your brother's care. They don't want you to go back to Relliketh. They want you at my side. 
DUKAT: Then this is where I'll stay, Eminence. 
WINN: Adami. 
DUKAT: Adami. What a beautiful name. 
WINN: It's all right. The Prophets brought us together. 
(So they kiss.) 
[Cargo bay]
KASIDY: That's the last of it. Tell Kilby to start the final departure check. 
MAN: Yes, ma'am. 
(Kasidy picks up her bag, then Sisko enters.) 
SISKO: I made a mistake. I don't care what the Prophets want. I want to marry you. We'll worry about the rest later. 
KASIDY: Ben, don't do this to me, not if you're going to change your mind again. 
SISKO: I won't. I love you. Okay, let's go. 
KASIDY: Where? 
SISKO: Where do you think? 
[Wardroom]
(Bashir enters. Odo, Kira and Nog are sitting on comfy chairs. O'Brien is by the table. Quark is setting out a tray of champagne glasses. Jake, Sisko and Admiral Ross are at the far end.) 
O'BRIEN: Didn't think you were going to make it. 
BASHIR: I only heard about it twenty minutes ago. 
QUARK: Me, too and I'm the caterer. I can't work under these conditions. 
BASHIR: Too bad Ezri and Worf couldn't be here. 
O'BRIEN: Well, they probably got held up picking out a wedding gift. 
(Quark hands round the glasses. Kira refuses.) 
QUARK: Something for you, Nog? 
ODO: Usually, when we come to events like this, you're the one who has to remind me to smile. I wonder why they decided not to have a Bajoran ceremony? I hope the Prophets forgive them. 
KIRA: So do I. 
(Nog pipes the bride aboard.) 
JAKE: You look beautiful. 
KASIDY: Thank you. 
ODO: Well done, Nog. 
NOG: Considering I only had a few minutes to practise. 
ROSS: One of the most pleasant duties of a senior officer is the privilege of joining two people together in matrimony. Today I have the honour to unite Kasidy Danielle Yates and Benjamin Lafayette Sisko in marriage. Kasidy, do you accept this man as your husband, to love and cherish above all others, until death separates you? 
KASIDY: I do. 
ROSS: Benjamin, do you accept this woman as your wife, to love and cherish her above all others, until death separates you? 
SISKO: I do. 
(Jake hands over the rings.) 
ROSS: These rings are a symbol your love for each other, and your promise to abide by the vows you've made today. 
KASIDY: With this ring, I thee wed. 
SISKO: With this ring 
(Sisko goes into Limbo.) 
[Cargo bay]
SARAH: This is not meant to be, Benjamin. 
SISKO: I've made my decision. 
SARAH: Your trial is at hand. You must be strong. 
SISKO: Kasidy gives me strength. Why can't you understand that? 
[Captain's office]
SARAH: If you do this, you will know only sorrow. 
SISKO: You shared my mother's existence. You must have some idea what love is. You should know that I will never be happy without Kasidy. 
SARAH: Your path is a difficult one. 
(She places his head on her bosom.) 
SARAH: I cannot change what is to come. 
SISKO: I know. 
SARAH: Be careful, my son. 
[Wardroom]
ROSS: Ben? 
SISKO: With this ring, I thee wed. 
ROSS: By the power invested in me by the United Federation of Planets, I pronounce you husband and wife. 
[Jem'Hadar bridge]
DAMAR: I need to talk to you. 
WEYOUN: Oh? 
DAMAR: I demand to know where we are going. 
WEYOUN: Of course. In fact, I was just coming to your quarters to discuss the matter. 
DAMAR: Were you? 
WEYOUN: I've kept you in the dark too long, Damar, and for that I apologise. You are the leader of Cardassia and you deserve to know everything we're doing. And I have a feeling you're going to be very pleased. 
[Breen cell]
(Worf is just staring at Ezri.) 
EZRI: Would you stop that? What's wrong? You haven't said a word to me in hours. 
WORF: I should not have trusted you with my heart. 
EZRI: What is that supposed to mean? 
WORF: You dishonour me and yourself. 
EZRI: I must've missed something when I was gone. 
WORF: How long have you had these feelings for him? 
EZRI: For who? 
WORF: Doctor Bashir! 
EZRI: What? 
WORF: When the Breen brought you back, you spoke his name. 
EZRI: I did? 
WORF: Yes. You said that you loved him. 
EZRI: Julian? I said I loved with Julian? 
WORF: Do not try to deny it. 
EZRI: Worf, look, I admit that I find him to be charming. And obviously he is an attractive man. But I'm not 
WORF: You are in love with him! 
EZRI: I am not! 
WORF: Then why do you dream about him? 
EZRI: You're the one that said dreams don't mean anything. 
WORF: I should have known. Jadzia had feelings for him as well. 
EZRI: Would you stop comparing me to her! 
(The Breen come for them) 
[Jem'Hadar bridge]
(Worf, Ezri and five Breen beam in.) 
WEYOUN: We meet at last. 
BREEN: (electronic noise) 
WEYOUN: Gifts? How thoughtful. You should be honoured. You're witnessing an historic moment. The birth of the alliance between the Dominion and the Breen. Changes everything doesn't it? 

