Episode Number: 470
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Shakaar
Shakaar
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 22 May, 1995
[Quark's]
(It's game on in front of the dart board) 
SISKO: Got you this time, Chief. 
(But O'Brien's third dart is a bulls-eye!) 
O'BRIEN: Sorry, Commander. 
SISKO: Don't apologise. That just makes it worse. 
O'BRIEN: I guess I'm just in the zone today. 
SISKO: In the zone? 
O'BRIEN: The feeling that I can't lose. That I can put the dart exactly where I want it. You know the feeling. 
SISKO: Not today. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
DAX [OC]: Benjamin, there's a priority message for you from the Bajoran Provisional government. 
SISKO: On my way. Fortunately, duty calls. You'll have to find yourself another victim. 
(Sisko leaves as Bashir enters) 
SISKO: Doctor. 
BASHIR: Commander. Is Chief O'Brien in here? 
SISKO: He's back there, in the zone. 
[Kira's quarters]
(Kira is performing her devotions in front of a shrine) 
KIRA: Raka ja ut. Shala morala. Ema bo roo kana. Uranak. Ralanon Bareil. Propeh va nara ehsuk. Shala kan vunek. 
(Doorbell) 
KIRA: Enter. 
SISKO: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt. 
KIRA: It's all right. It's called a duranja. It's a lamp for the dead. I was just praying for Bareil. What can I do for you? 
SISKO: This may come as somewhat of a shock, but I wanted you to hear it from me. The First Minister of the Provisional government has died. 
KIRA: Kalem Apren? How? 
SISKO: Heart failure. He died in his sleep. 
KIRA: Well, I just met him once, but he seemed like he was a good man. How soon will they appoint someone to replace him? 
SISKO: They have already appointed someone. The new head of the Provisional government is Kai Winn. 
[Wardroom]
ODO: So as a result, I've transferred Ensign Palmers back to the night watch and reassigned Crewman Donark to the Defiant as a member of the security detachment. Starfleet is sending a series of upgrades for our tactical computer modules next week. I've drawn up a plan to phase in the upgrades over the course of three days. Major. Is something wrong? 
KIRA: Yes. Oh, it's this whole thing with Kai Winn. I was just trying to get used to her as spiritual leader of Bajor and now she's running the government, Odo? 
ODO: Not an ideal situation. 
KIRA: Well I'm beginning to think that you and I are the only ones who feel that way. No one's is opposing her in next month's elections. She is going to be elected the First Minister for the next six years and no one seems to care. 
ODO: You and I have a different perspective than most Bajorans. There's a personal element to our feelings about her. I know that you still blame Winn for Bareil's death. 
KIRA: That's part of it. This is about the future of Bajor. I can't shake the feeling that giving Winn control of the government is a mistake and she should be stopped. 
ODO: Stopped from doing what? 
KIRA: I don't know. Maybe, maybe I'm afraid that if she's given power, she's never going to let go. 
ODO: Unfortunately that suspicion is not shared by the people of Bajor. They still admire her as the woman who made peace with Cardassia. 
KIRA: Bareil made peace with Cardassia. 
ODO: I know that, Major. But to the rest of Bajor, Winn is the real hero. In their eyes it took courage for her to conclude a treaty with a race that she herself had so bitterly condemned and fought against. 
KIRA: I don't care what her popular image is. She is no hero. The only thing that she cares about is her own power. Why can't people see that? We spent so many years fighting the Cardassians. We spent so much time hoping and praying for a Bajor that was free. Now that we won, how can people just hand their freedom over to someone like Winn? 
ODO: It has been my observation that one of the prices of giving people freedom of choice is that sometimes they make the wrong choice. 
[Kira's quarters]
KIRA: Bo roo kana uranak. Ralanon Bareil. Propeh va nara ehsuk. Shala kan. 
(Doorbell) 
KIRA: Yes? 
WINN: Hello, child. 
KIRA: Eminence. 
WINN: May I come in? 
KIRA: Yes. 
WINN: Please forgive this intrusion. I know the hour is late. 
KIRA: Does Commander Sisko know you're aboard the station? 
WINN: I'm not here to see the Emissary. I'm here to see you. 
KIRA: Me? 
WINN: Yes, child. Have you suffered a recent loss? Or are you still mourning the death of Minister Kalem? 
KIRA: It's for Vedek Bareil, actually. 
WINN: It's been three months since Bareil left us to walk with the Prophets. You must have cared for him deeply. 
KIRA: I loved him. 
WINN: As did I. 
KIRA: Is that why you never mention Bareil's name when you talk about your peace treaty with Cardassia? As I recall, he's the one who negotiated it. 
WINN: Bareil saw himself as simply carrying out the will of the Prophets. To him, achieving peace with Cardassia was its own reward. He never wanted fame or glory for what he did. As someone who loved him, I'm surprised you didn't know that. 
KIRA: What is it you want, Eminence? 
WINN: Are you familiar with Rakantha Province? 
KIRA: It's a farming community. 
WINN: And it used to be one of the most productive agricultural regions on Bajor. But as you know, the Cardassians poisoned much of our farmlands before they left, and Rakantha has been mostly barren wasteland ever since. After years of research, the agricultural ministry has finally developed reclamators which can detoxify the soil and make it fertile again. 
KIRA: It's very interesting, but what does it have to do with me? 
WINN: Patience, child. In six months, it will be planting season in Rakantha. By this time next year, we can be producing boton, moreka and salam grass. All valuable commodities for export. If we can attract interstellar commerce to Bajor, it will only enhance our application for membership in the Federation. 
KIRA: I understand. 
WINN: Unfortunately, a group of farmers who were allowed to use the reclamators in another province are now refusing to return them. And this is why I've come to you, Kira. The farmers who seized the equipment are in Dahkur Province. Your home. And they're led by a man with whom you're acquainted. His name is Shakaar. 
KIRA: Shakaar? 
WINN: And if I'm not mistaken, he was the leader of your resistance cell during the occupation. 
KIRA: That's right. 
WINN: I want you to convince him to return the equipment he's stolen. 
KIRA: You want me to go up against a man who saved my life countless times for you? 
WINN: Not for me, child. For Bajor. I know we've had our differences in the past, but I'm asking you to put those feelings aside and think of what is best for our people. We're on the verge of a new era. The Occupation is over, we've achieved peace with Cardassia, Federation membership is only a few years away. This is an exciting time to be a Bajoran. But our future depends on each of us acting for the common good of all Bajor. Shakaar has lost sight of this. By stealing the reclamators, he's acting in his own self-interest at the expense of the rest of our people. 
KIRA: I know Shakaar. He's one of the most selfless people I have ever met. He must have a good reason for what he's done. 
WINN: Perhaps. Perhaps he is just misguided. That's why I've come to you, Kira. You know him, you can talk to him. I don't want this to become a scandal. I want this settled peacefully, quietly. Surely we can both agree that that's a worthy goal. 
KIRA: I'll talk to him, but I can't guarantee that he'll listen to me. 
WINN: Vedek Bareil used to tell me that you could be quite persuasive when you put your mind to it, child. I hope he wasn't mistaken. Walk with the Prophets. 
[Shakaar's farm]
(Kira beams onto a slope of dry sandy soil. If this is a farm, it is not prosperous. She goes over to the farmhouse door, then Ronan from 
Sub Rosa
, puts his hand on her shoulder, making her jump.) 
SHAKAAR: You cut your hair. 
KIRA: You let yours grow. 
SHAKAAR: I liked you the old way. 
KIRA: I was thinking the same thing about you. 
SHAKAAR: It's good to see you, Nerys. 
KIRA: It's good to see you, too. 
SHAKAAR: Come on in. 
[Shakaar's house]
SHAKAAR: So, Major Kira Nerys, Deep Space Nine's first officer. You've made quite a name for yourself. 
KIRA: Not really. 
SHAKAAR: You've accomplished a great deal. You should be proud. Furel and Lupaza are so proud of you they actually stand a little taller every time your name comes up. 
KIRA: Furel and Lupaza? You still see them? 
SHAKAAR: Of course. They both have farms less than ten kilometres from here. 
KIRA: Those two are farmers? Now you, yes, that's all you ever talked about. But Lupaza? How did that happen? 
SHAKAAR: You can ask her yourself. They'll be here in a couple of hours. I can hardly wait to see the look on their faces when they walk through that door and see you standing there. 
KIRA: Shakaar, before they get here we should talk. I'm here on business. 
SHAKAAR: I know why you're here, Nerys. I need time to think about it, all right? 
KIRA: All right. 
[Quark's]
(A darts match is finishing with O'Brien getting another bull.) 
DAX: I think I'll stick to tongo from now on. 
O'BRIEN: Sorry, Lieutenant. 
QUARK: Thank you. Thank you all for your gaming business. The House will start taking bets on the next challenger at ten to one. That's ten to one without even knowing who the next challenger will be. 
O'BRIEN: Quark, I have to go. 
QUARK: No problem. Ladies and gentlemen, Chief of Operations Miles Edward O'Brien has to leave to resume his duties on board the station. Now, everyone, make way. I trust we'll be seeing you again tomorrow, Chief, for your forty seventh straight victory? 
O'BRIEN: I don't know. I was actually thinking about getting some time in the holosuites tomorrow. 
QUARK: The holosuites? You weren't thinking of going kayaking by any chance? 
O'BRIEN: As a matter of fact, I was. 
QUARK: Didn't I tell you? I misplaced the kayaking programme. Haven't seen it in days. 
O'BRIEN: Quark. 
QUARK: All right, look. You're on a streak. An epic streak. If you go kayaking tomorrow and something happens and you damage that golden shoulder, this streak will be over and you'll never know just how far it might have taken you. Could you really live with that? 
O'BRIEN: You're offering ten to one to anyone betting against me tomorrow? 
QUARK: That's right. 
O'BRIEN: I'd make it fifteen if I were you. 
QUARK: Yes! 
[Shakaar's house]
(Later that evening, after the meal) 
LUPAZA: (another red-headed woman) You never would've found your way out of there if I hadn't left that marker on that rock. 
FUREL: (a stout one-armed man) I have a fine sense of direction. I knew exactly where I was that night. Exactly. 
KIRA: I found your tracks the next day. You'd been walking in circles. 
FUREL: I was throwing the Cardassians off my trail. Again, please. 
(Kira fills his clay mug.) 
KIRA: Furel, if you don't mind my asking, why haven't you? 
FUREL: Had my arm replaced? Well, I thought about it. I even saw a Federation doctor about it. She said, no problem, Furel. You can have a new arm in less than a week. It'll have full range of motion and feel just like your own. 
KIRA: So why didn't you do it? 
FUREL: Before I went into that interrogation centre, I asked the Prophets to give me the strength to get the rest of you out of there. And in exchange, I said I'd give up my life. As it turned out, I was able to rescue you, Shakaar and Lupaza. It only cost me an arm. I felt the Prophets were generous. Somehow replacing the arm seems ungrateful. 
LUPAZA: I think you're just afraid that with two arms you'd actually have to do some real work for a change. 
FUREL: I've done more work in three months on my farm than you've done in three years. I have seen better weeds than the crops you grow. 
LUPAZA: You know good and well that my soil's more toxic than any other tract within a hundred kilometres. 
FUREL: Ha! 
LUPAZA: It's true. Once I get a chance to use one of the reclamators things'll change, I can promise you that. 
SHAKAAR: You may not get that chance, Lupaza. Nerys was sent here by the Kai with orders to convince us to return the reclamators to the government. 
FUREL: And you said no. 
SHAKAAR: I said I'd have to think about it. 
LUPAZA: There's not much to think about, Shakaar, you know that. Tell the Kai or the First Minister or whatever she wants to be called these days, that the answer's no. We need the reclamators and that's the end of it. Now, who wants tuwaly pie? 
[Shakaar's farm]
KIRA: You know this business with the reclamators isn't going to just go away, Shakaar. 
SHAKAAR: Maybe not. 
KIRA: Definitely not. I think you should reconsider. I know what you're trying to do here, and I know how difficult it's been. We have to think about what's best for Bajor. 
SHAKAAR: If you think giving the reclamators back to the government is the best thing for Bajor, then you've been out on that space station for too long. We waited three years to get the reclamators. We finally got them two months ago and we were told that they were ours for at least a year. The Provisional government actually did something right for a change. Then Minister Kalem died, and the next thing we know we get an order to return the reclamators immediately to the Rakantha farming project. 
KIRA: The Rakantha project is important. If they can get it underway, Bajor could start exporting goods again. It could start to change the way the rest of the galaxy looks at us. They'll stop seeing us as poor refugees and start seeing us as equals. 
SHAKAAR: I don't give a damn how the rest of the galaxy looks at us. We're trying to feed our own people here and you're talking about exports. 
KIRA: There must be a way to reach some kind of compromise here 
SHAKAAR: How? 
KIRA: I don't know, but maybe if you and the Kai would sit down and talk together, maybe you can reach some kind of agreement. Some way of sharing the equipment more fairly. If I could arrange a meeting between the two of you, would you at least agree to sit down talk with her about it? 
SHAKAAR: I don't know if it'll accomplish anything. 
KIRA: It might not, but it's a place to start. 
SHAKAAR: All right. For you. It's good to have you home, Nerys. You should come back more often. 
KIRA: I might do that. 
SHAKAAR: Good. Because we've all missed you. Especially me. 
[Winn's office]
WINN: Am I to assume, my child, that you've met with Shakaar? 
KIRA: We talked. 
WINN: And have you convinced him to return the soil reclamators? 
KIRA: He's not ready to return them yet. 
WINN: I see. When can we expect the return of the equipment? 
KIRA: When the topsoil in Dahkur Province has been restored and readied for planting. Another six months. 
WINN: In six months, the planting season in Rakantha will be over. 
KIRA: I realise that, and I know how important the Rakantha project is, which is why I've arranged a meeting between the two of you. 
WINN: A meeting? 
KIRA: Yes. To work out a compromise. If you just hear him out and look at the work they've been able to accomplish in Dahkur in just two months, you'll see how important this is to them. I'm sure there's a way to resolve this situation so that both Rakantha and Dahkur can benefit. 
WINN: Did you explain to Shakaar that you were there on the direct authority of the First Minister? 
KIRA: Yes, but it wouldn't have mattered if I were there on behalf of the Prophets themselves. He wasn't about to just give up the equipment. 
WINN: A pity. Shakaar sounds like a prideful and arrogant man. It also seems there's no reasoning with him. 
KIRA: Shakaar is not an unreasonable man. He's desperate. They all are. You should see what they're up against. The condition of the soil, the harsh weather. I'm sure if you talk to him, you'll be able to work out a compromise. 
WINN: It would seem that I have little choice. 
KIRA: So I can tell him that you'll discuss it with him? 
WINN: You can tell him that. And then you can return to Deep Space Nine. 
KIRA: But I can still serve as an intermediary between you and Shakaar. 
WINN: That won't be necessary. You've already done enough. And please give my best regards to Commander Sisko. That will be all, my child. 
[Shakaar's house]
SHAKAAR: I'll be interested to hear what she has to say, but she's not getting those reclamators back till we're finished with them. 
KIRA: Shakaar, you have to be flexible. I'm not sure this is a fight you can win. 
SHAKAAR: That's what the Cardassians used to say. 
(Doorbell.) 
SHAKAAR: Come in. 
(Enter Bajoran security) 
SECURITY: Are you Shakaar? 
SHAKAAR: Yes. 
SECURITY: You're under arrest. 
KIRA: Wait a minute. On whose authority? 
SECURITY: Our orders came directly from the office of the First Minister. 
KIRA: She lied to me. 
SHAKAAR: She's good at it, Nerys. Don't feel bad. 
SECURITY: If you'll come with us. 
SHAKAAR: Yeah, all right. I just want to make one thing clear. 
(He punches the officer and Kira disarms the other.) 
SHAKAAR: I'm glad to see that living on a space station hasn't slowed you down. 
KIRA: We have to get out of here. 
SHAKAAR: This can still be explained away. It was a tense situation, you acted on instinct. They'll understand that. But they won't understand you coming with me. This isn't your fight, Nerys. Go home. 
KIRA: I am home, Shakaar, and I have been lied to by Kai Winn for the last time. She wants a fight, I'll give her one. 
[Caves]
(The gang are opening their cache of weapons.) 
FUREL: The civil police have issued a province-wide alert for you and Kira. They've also requested that the surrounding towns send more troops and equipment to help in the search for the fugitives. 
SHAKAAR: Now there's a familiar word. Haven't been called that in a while. I kind of missed it. 
LUPAZA: The authorities have seized your farm and they've brought in a scanning machine to hunt for the reclamators. 
SHAKAAR: Let them scan. There's nothing there to find. 
LUPAZA: They've also detained some of the other members of our resistance cell for questioning. 
KIRA: Who? 
LUPAZA: Mobara, Klin and Ornak were taken away before I could reach them. The others are heading for the Kola Mountain stronghold. I said we'd meet them there and go over our plan. 
FUREL: Well, what is our plan? 
SHAKAAR: For now, the plan is to keep moving. We'll let the civil police run themselves ragged chasing us through the mountains. 
FUREL: Just like old times. 
SHAKAAR: That's the general idea. The Cardassians spent ten years searching for us in these mountains. The civil police will probably give up in ten days. 
KIRA: I'm not so sure about that. Some of them were in the Resistance too. They might not give up so easily. 
SHAKAAR: Maybe. But I really don't think they want to hunt down a group of fellow Bajorans who are just trying to defend their homes. We head for Kola Mountain, pick up anyone who's there, and move further into the hill country. Let's go. 
[Quark's]
(The 47th darts match is in session and Miles is still in the Zone.) 
BASHIR: Yes! 
SYVAR: (a Starfleet Vulcan) A most auspicious shot. 
BASHIR: You've got him, Chief. One in the bull and you win. 
DAX: I think he knows that, Julian. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry, coach. I won't let you down. 
SYVAR: I see no need for delay. Throw the dart. 
O'BRIEN: I will throw the dart when I'm ready to throw the dart. 
QUARK: Did I miss anything? 
DAX: Shhh. 
O'BRIEN: Is that my synthale? 
QUARK: Extra-stout, just the way you like it. 
O'BRIEN: Excuse me. 
QUARK: There you go. 
(O'Brien reaches behind himself and..) 
O'BRIEN: Argh! 
QUARK: What is it? 
BASHIR: It's his shoulder. It's popped out of its socket. Get me the tricorder. 
QUARK: What did I do? I just handed him a drink. 
O'BRIEN: It's all right. Just pop it back in, Julian. I'll be all right. 
BASHIR: Oh, no. I'm afraid it's not that simple this time, Chief. You've got a rotator cuff tear and severe degenerative damage. We'd better him to the Infirmary. 
SYVAR: If he leaves the line, he forfeits the game. 
QUARK: Forfeit? 
BASHIR: This man needs surgery. 
O'BRIEN: Surgery? 
BASHIR: That's right, Chief. I may have to replace the entire humeral socket. It's not a complicated procedure. We can postpone the conclusion of this competition until tomorrow, at which time he will be good as new. 
SYVAR: I do not make the rules, I merely follow them. 
O'BRIEN: Wait, wait, wait. Look, I'm in the zone. I just need 
(He tries to raise his throwing arm and ) 
O'BRIEN: Argh! I just need surgery. 
SYVAR: I believe the House is paying fifteen to one. 
QUARK: All I did was hand him a drink. 
[Winn's office]
WINN: Emissary, I'm so happy you came to consult with me. 
SISKO: Frankly, I'm surprised you wanted my advice. 
WINN: The advice of the Emissary is always welcome. But what I need is your help. 
SISKO: What kind of help? 
WINN: It's been two weeks since I was forced to send the militia into Dahkur Province. 
SISKO: And? 
WINN: And they've yet to catch sight of Shakaar or any of his followers, let alone take them into custody. 
SISKO: I guess now you know how the Cardassians must have felt. 
WINN: The point is, I can't let this go on much longer. It embarrasses me to say this, but Shakaar's defiance seems to be catching on in some of the other Provinces, and I've had to take certain unfortunate actions to maintain order. 
SISKO: You mean declaring martial law and suspending local government in the hill provinces? 
WINN: I wasn't aware that you kept such close watch on the Bajoran political situation. 
SISKO: From what I understand, Shakaar is gaining support all over Bajor. 
WINN: Is that what Major Kira's been telling you? 
SISKO: I haven't spoken with Major Kira in quite some time. 
WINN: Emissary, I don't want this issue to divide my people. 
SISKO: Then I advise withdrawing your troops from Dahkur. 
WINN: I'm more than willing to do that, on one condition. 
SISKO: And what might that be? 
WINN: I'd like you to provide a Federation security force to take their place. 
SISKO: You want me to bring in Shakaar for you. 
WINN: Such an act would do much to solidify the relations between the Federation and Bajor. 
SISKO: I wasn't aware that our relationship needed solidifying. 
WINN: Nevertheless, this would be an opportunity for the Federation to once again show it's friendship for Bajor. 
SISKO: I'm sorry, but I'm afraid Federation law prevents me from interfering in Bajoran internal affairs. 
WINN: So, you're refusing my request for aid? 
SISKO: I suppose I am. 
WINN: If Bajor cannot depend on the Federation, we'll withdraw our application for membership. 
SISKO: That would be an unfortunate overreaction on your part. If I may say so, your entire response to this crisis has been an overreaction. By using the militia against your own people, you're risking civil war over a couple of soil reclamators. 
WINN: I'm afraid you can't see what's really going on here. This isn't about soil reclamators. This is about the future of our society. When someone like Shakaar can defy the law and escape punishment, we risk descending into anarchy and chaos. This is a test, a test by the Prophets. They want to see if I'm worthy of the role they've given me as First Minister and Kai. I will not fail them. I will stop Shakaar by any means necessary. 
[Hills]
(The group is on the run down a slope.) 
SHAKAAR: Move, move, move! 
FUREL: They're closing. Seventy five metres. 
SHAKAAR: Come on, Kira. 
KIRA: I've almost got it. 
(Kira keeps working a piece of machinery.) 
LUPAZA: They're on the ridge. 
(A Bajoran troop is coming down towards them, scanning as they go.) 
SHAKAAR: Kira, if you can't do it, tell me now. 
KIRA: I got it. 
(She plants the device in the ground.) 
TROOP: New reading. Seven hundred metres that way. 
TROOP 2: Yes, sir. 
LEADER: Let's go. 
SHAKAAR: How long do we have? 
KIRA: I've projected the false life signs about seven hundred metres past that ravine. It'll take them about an hour to cover that distance, and another fifteen to realise what's happened. 
FUREL: Either I'm getting older or these mountains are getting higher. 
LUPAZA: The next time I start getting nostalgic for the old days, shoot me. 
FUREL: If you insist. 
(The troop disappear over the ridge again.) 
SHAKAAR: They're good. 
KIRA: Half of them are from Dahkur Province. They know this terrain almost as well as we do. 
SHAKAAR: I think you're right. We need to leave Dahkur. They'll box us in if we stay much longer. 
KIRA: We could take Serpent's Ridge up to Ratosha Pass, head for Lonar Province. 
SHAKAAR: Serpent's Ridge is pretty rugged territory. 
KIRA: I don't think we have much choice. 
FUREL: Yes, we do. We can turn and fight. 
LUPAZA: He's right, Shakaar. It's just like in the old days. Every once in a while the Cardassians would get too close and we'd turn around and give them a bloody nose. 
SHAKAAR: Sometimes it was our nose that got bloodied. 
FUREL: We were willing to take the chance. I'll follow whatever orders you give, but I am tired of running. 
SHAKAAR: Kira? 
KIRA: I'm not sure we can keep up this pace. 
SHAKAAR: All right. We head for Tanis Canyon. Kira's on point, column of twos behind her. Lupaza, you take up the rear. 
FUREL: There is no way out of Tanis Canyon 
SHAKAAR: And that's why we're going to lead those militia troops in there. Because we're going to be waiting for them. Let's move. 
[Tanis Canyon]
(The rebels are on the ridge as the troops enter the box canyon.) 
SHAKAAR: I don't think they've picked us up on their tricorders. 
KIRA: They won't, either. Not with that dampening field in place. I think I recognise that man. 
SHAKAAR: Which one? 
KIRA: The colonel. That's Lenaris Holem. 
SHAKAAR: Lenaris? From the Ornathia resistance cell. 
KIRA: I met him at a reception in the Capital about a year ago. 
SHAKAAR: He's good. No wonder we haven't lost them. We have to get him with the first volley. You take the Lieutenant on the right. I'll take Lenaris. 
(They take aim, but neither can squeeze the trigger.) 
KIRA: I can't. I'm sorry. 
SHAKAAR: Don't be. I can't either. 
(Kira and Shakaar stand up.) 
LENARIS: Hold. 
(Kira and Shakaar walk down the slope.) 
LENARIS: Set a perimeter and watch the hills. Nobody fires until I give the order. 
TROOP: Aye, sir. Firing positions, hold. 
LENARIS: That's far enough. Shakaar? 
KIRA: Kira Nerys. 
LENARIS: We've met. I've wanted to thank you for a long time. I had a brother at Gallitep when you liberated the camp. 
SHAKAAR: A lot of people did. I just wish we'd gotten there sooner. 
LENARIS: Well. I take it from your calm demeanour that I've walked into an ambush. I should have stayed up on the ridge line, never come down into the valley. 
SHAKAAR: It's an easy mistake to make. You thought we were another two kilometres ahead so you tried to make up time. I might have done the same thing. 
LENARIS: I think I should tell you I've been in worse situations. 
SHAKAAR: The Pullock Five raid. 
LENARIS: You know about that? 
SHAKAAR: The first offworld raid against the Cardassians? Of course. It was a bold move. 
LENARIS: If you know about Pullock Five, then you should also know I won't give up without a fight. If you're here to ask me to surrender, you're wasting your time. 
SHAKAAR: That's not why I'm here. I want to take my people and walk out of here. I want to take them home. 
(One of the troopers fires at Furel.) 
SHAKAAR: Wait! 
KIRA: Stop! No one shoot! No one shoot! 
LENARIS: Cease fire! Cease fire! 
TROOPER: Sir, I saw someone. I thought they were going to open fire. 
LENARIS: Lieutenant. Take this man's weapon and get him off the perimeter. Now, I believe you were saying something about wanting to walk out of here? 
SHAKAAR: That's right. 
LENARIS: You know that's impossible. 
KIRA: Well we'd better find a way to make it possible, because the next time someone starts shooting, we won't be able to stop it. And I'm not talking about today. I'm talking about tomorrow and the next day and the next. I am talking about the beginning of a civil war. 
SHAKAAR: I didn't fight the Cardassians for twenty five years just so I could start shooting other Bajorans. 
LENARIS: Neither did I. So, what do we do about it? 
[Winn's office]
WINN: What is it? 
AIDE [OC]: Colonel Lenaris is here to see you. 
WINN: Send him in. 
(Lenaris enters with Kira and Shakaar.) 
WINN: I see you've brought me a pair of gifts. How thoughtful of you. 
LENARIS: They're not my prisoners. 
WINN: What do you mean, they're not your prisoners? What's going on? 
SHAKAAR: I'm here to enter the election as a candidate for the office of First Minister. 
WINN: You have an interesting sense of humour. 
KIRA: It's no joke. Shakaar is going to enter the election and you are going to lose. 
LENARIS: I've consulted with the other army commands, and he has their full support. 
WINN: So this is a coup? 
KIRA: No, it's a free election. If you want to run, go ahead. But if you do, this entire incident is going to be made public. And when the people know the real facts, when they know you risked a civil war over a couple of pieces of farm equipment, they're never going to trust you again. You'll still be Kai, the spiritual leader of Bajor. But your days in this office are numbered. So if I were you, I'd start packing. 
[Quark's]
(O'Brien is testing his arm at the dart board.) 
BASHIR: How's it feel? 
O'BRIEN: Good so far. Let's see. 
(The dart lands outside the six.) 
BASHIR: Well try it again, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: No. I can feel it. I'm out of the zone. You know, I've played sports all my life and I've never been in the zone like that before. Probably never will again, but it felt good while it lasted. 
BASHIR: Well, look on the bright side. Now you have a new shoulder, you might finally finish that kayaking programme. 
O'BRIEN: Hey. You may be right. Quark, I need a holosuite. 
(Bashir casually throws a dart - and it's a bullseye!) 
QUARK: Doctor. Welcome to the zone. Let me tell you about a little thing I've 
[Kira's quarters]
SISKO: Have any other candidates entered the election? 
KIRA: One or two, but Shakaar's popularity is growing so fast I don't think anyone can catch him at this point. 
SISKO: What about the Kai? 
KIRA: She's trying to make the best of it. She even put out a statement of support for Shakaar. Ow. You know, I used to enjoy sleeping on the ground. 
SISKO: It's good to have you back, Major. 
KIRA: It's good to be back, sir. 
SISKO: I'll see you in Ops. 
(Sisko leaves. Kira goes to Bareil's memorial lamp and blows it out.) 

