Episode Number: 483
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Homefront
Homefront
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 1 Jan, 1996
[Promenade - upper level]
(A crowd are watching the wormhole open and close without any ships coming through) 
DAX: There it goes again. That's the seventh time in the last two hours. 
SISKO: Still no idea what's causing it? 
DAX: It seems to be opening and closing completely at random. No unusual readings, no ships coming through. For all we know, the Bajorans are right. Maybe it is a message from the Prophets. 
PRIEST: Emissary. 
SISKO: If it is, they didn't tell me. 
DAX: Maybe the Prophets don't recognise you with the new beard. 
SISKO: There must to be a scientific explanation for this. 
(Odo steps through the Promenade airlock.) 
DAX: Here we go. 
SISKO: Something funny, old man? 
DAX: Hmm? No, nothing. 
WORF [OC]: Ops to Captain Sisko. 
SISKO: Sisko here. 
WORF [OC]: Captain, we are receiving a priority one message from Starfleet Security. 
SISKO: On my way. 
[Quark's]
QUARK: So then, the Andorian says 'That's not my antenna.' 
(Morn does not laugh) 
QUARK: Why do I bother? 
ODO: Quark! 
QUARK: What can I do for you, Constable? 
ODO: Dax. Where is she? 
QUARK: She's not here. Is there anything else I can do for you? 
ODO: You find all this very funny, don't you? You and Dax probably planned it together. 
QUARK: Planned what? 
ODO: Moving my furniture. 
QUARK: Is that what this is all about? Someone moved your furniture? 
ODO: Not someone. Commander Dax. It's the fourth time she's done it this past year. She breaks into my quarters while I'm regenerating, and moves all my furniture out of alignment. Shifts one piece three centimetres to the left, the next four centimetres to the right. Not one object in my quarters is where it's supposed to be. 
QUARK: And is that a bad thing? 
ODO: Everything I own is carefully and painstakingly arranged. Dax knows this, and yet she takes a perverse delight in throwing my quarters into chaos. 
QUARK: I'd hardly call three centimetres chaos. 
ODO: Maybe you wouldn't, but I do. You humanoids are all alike. You have no sense of order. And Dax is the most humanoid person I know. 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Constable Odo. 
ODO: Odo here. 
SISKO [OC]: Please report to Ops immediately. 
ODO: Acknowledged. 
QUARK: When you see Dax, say hello to her for me. 
[Ops]
KIRA: How many people were at the conference? 
SISKO: Twenty seven, including the Tholian observer. 
O'BRIEN: Twenty-seven. It's unbelievable. 
SISKO: Federation President Jaresh-Inyo has declared a planet-wide day of mourning. 
(Odo enters) 
SISKO: Constable, take a seat. 
ODO: Of course. 
WORF: Ten minutes ago we received a recording of a high level diplomatic conference that took place between the Federation and the Romulan Empire on Earth a few days ago. Computer, begin replay at time index five nine eleven. 
(The viewscreen shows a bunch of aliens milling around an oval table on stardate 49170.65, then there's a bang and static.) 
ODO: A bomb. 
WORF: Of unknown composition. 
SISKO: A crime like this hasn't been committed on Earth in over a hundred years. 
KIRA: Go back, and show him what you showed us. 
WORF: Computer, restart recording at time index five nine one six, one tenth normal speed. Freeze picture. Enlarge section F three and enhance. 
(A decorative vase on a pedestal.) 
WORF: Keep your eye on the piece of pottery. Computer, resume at one tenth speed. 
(The vase starts to morph then the bang.) 
ODO: That's a changeling. 
WORF: No sign of a changeling was found in the aftermath. We must assume that it escaped unharmed. 
SISKO: I was hoping that this would never happen. But it finally has. The changelings have reached Earth. 
[Odo's quarters]
(Dax is arranging Odo's sculptural furniture under his supervision.) 
DAX: How's that? 
ODO: Another centimetre to the left. 
DAX: Shouldn't you be on the Lakota? 
ODO: The Lakota won't depart for another hour. Which gives us plenty of time to repair the damage you've done to my room. And while I'm gone, I want your solemn word that you'll stay out of my quarters. 
DAX: You've got it. So how long do you think you and Captain Sisko will be on Earth? 
ODO: I've no idea. I just hope this trip isn't a waste of time. I'm not sure what Captain Sisko and I can tell Starfleet about my people that hasn't already been in our reports. 
DAX: Believe me, Odo, with changelings on Earth, Starfleet's going to need all the help it can get. There. How's that? 
ODO: A little more to the left. 
DAX: Whatever you say, Constable. 
[Sisko's quarters]
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Wait until you see the size of the eggplant I'm getting out of my garden this year. As big as Crenshaw melons and twice as heavy. 
(Everyone say Hi! to 
Brock Peters
, previously seen as 
Admiral Cartwright
.) 
SISKO: So, how is Judith? She still helping out in the restaurant? 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: I sent her home to Portland. Your sister's got her own life to worry about. Besides, she never puts enough cayenne pepper in the jambalaya. 
SISKO: Just like mom. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Which means she has no business in the kitchen. It'll be good to have you home again, Benjamin. Jake too. 
SISKO: Dad, you know that this isn't exactly a vacation. I'll be spending most of my time in San Francisco at Starfleet Headquarters. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Whatever you do during the day is your business. But at dinner time, you better get yourself down to New Orleans. No son of mine is going to eat that replicated slop Starfleet calls food. Not if I have anything to say about it. 
SISKO: You won't get any argument from me. So, Dad, you feeling okay? 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Oh, let's not start that again. 
SISKO: It's just a question. You look a little tired. How's the new aorta holding up? 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: The doctors say I am a medical marvel. At the rate things are going in another year or two I won't have an original organ left in my body. They'll write me up in the medical books. 
SISKO: But you're feeling okay? 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Just point me in the direction of a party and a pretty girl and I'll show you how good I feel. Make sure you call me as soon as you and Jake get here. Your rooms are always waiting and ready for you. 
SISKO: I know that, Dad. We'll be there before you know it. 
(Transmission ends. Jake enters, wearing a baseball mitt.) 
SISKO: Jake-o. 
JAKE: Dad. 
SISKO: You just missed Grandpa Joe. 
JAKE: Did you tell him we're staying in San Francisco? 
SISKO: I didn't quite get around to it. 
JAKE: Dad! You know if we stay with Grandpa he's going to put me to work in the kitchen. 
SISKO: Is that so bad? 
JAKE: Chopping vegetables for nine hours a day isn't exactly my idea of a vacation. 
SISKO: Jake, you're not a child anymore. Grandpa will not expect you to chop vegetables. He'll want you to wait tables. 
[Quark's]
(Bashir and O'Brien come down from the holosuites as WW2 RAF pilots) 
O'BRIEN: (cockney accent) Barkeep. 
QUARK: So, what can I get you two flyboys. 
BASHIR: A Scotch, neat, and a pint of your finest bitter for my mate. 
O'BRIEN: And make it quick. The cabbage crates'll be coming back over the briny any minute now. 
QUARK: All right, all right. I'd hate to let the Jerries strafe that green and pleasant land of yours while the two of you were taking time out to get a drink. 
BASHIR: No choice, man. Ritual, you know. 
0'BRIEN: To Clive. The best bloke ever to prang his kite into the Channel. 
BASHIR: Got to keep a stiff upper lip. 
O'BRIEN: Hear, hear. 
BASHIR: Down the hatch. 
(They drain their glasses in one - that was not a full pint anyway - and make to smash them.) 
QUARK: Ah! Ah! Ah! Now remember what I said about throwing glasses. 
O'BRIEN: So, you want to go back up have another crack at the Jerries? 
BASHIR: I don't know. To tell you the truth, my heart isn't in it. 
QUARK: Aren't you taking Clive's death a little seriously? After all, he was just a holosuite character. 
O'BRIEN: (normal voice) It's not Clive. It's Earth. You probably wouldn't understand this, Quark, but when you care about a place and it's in trouble, and you want to do something about it and you can't, it's very frustrating. 
QUARK: I know exactly what you mean. When the Great Monetary Collapse hit Ferenginar, I was hundreds of light years away, serving as a ship's cook on a long haul freighter. I can't tell you the heartbreak I suffered, knowing that rampant inflation and currency devaluation were burning like wildfires through the lush financial landscapes of my home. It still depresses me even today. I remember thinking my accounts needed me, and there was nothing I could do. I felt so, so helpless. So you see, I do understand. 
O'BRIEN: Somehow, you telling me that doesn't make me feel the least bit better. 
QUARK: Humans. All you care about is yourselves. 
O'BRIEN: Odo, hang on a minute. 
[Promenade]
ODO: Well, I take it the Battle of Britain has been won yet again. 
BASHIR: There's a Spitfire with your name on it waiting in the hangar. When you get back from Earth, you can take Clive's place in the squadron. 
ODO: Somehow I doubt it. 
O'BRIEN: Look, Odo, do me a favour. If you get a chance, stop by and visit my folks in Dublin. Just make sure they're okay, you know? 
ODO: I'll try to find the time. 
O'BRIEN: Good. I'll let them know you might drop by. 
ODO: Anyone I can look up for you, Doctor? 
BASHIR: No, no, that's perfectly fine. I just wish I was coming with you. 
ODO: To be perfectly honest, Doctor, I wish you were both going with me. I could use the company. I doubt that a shape-shifter is will be welcome on Earth at the moment. 
O'BRIEN: No one can hold you responsible for what your people are doing. 
ODO: Oh really? Well, I'd better get over to the Lakota. We'll be leaving shortly. 
BASHIR: Good luck. 
ODO: I don't believe in luck. But I appreciate the sentiment. 
(Odo goes through the airlock.) 
BASHIR: Well, we'd better get out of these uniforms. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: The Lakota's gone to warp. 
WORF: When was the last time the wormhole opened? 
KIRA: Twelve hours ago. 
WORF: Perhaps it has returned to normal. 
KIRA: I suppose so. 
O'BRIEN: You sound disappointed, Major. 
KIRA: I guess I am. Part of me was hoping that the Prophets were behind it. That they were finally going to show themselves to the Bajoran people. 
WORF: I prefer Klingon beliefs. 
KIRA: I suppose your gods aren't as cryptic as ours. 
WORF: Our gods are dead. Ancient Klingon warriors slew them a millennia ago. They were more trouble than they were worth. 
KIRA: I don't think I'll ever understand Klingons. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry about it, Major. Nobody does. That's the way they like it. 
[Starfleet HQ]
(A composite of a model and the Tillman Water Reclamation Plant at Van Nuys, California. Outside one of the buildings..) 
LEYTON: Ben. 
SISKO: Admiral Leyton. Good to see you again, sir. 
LEYTON: Captain Sisko. This is my adjutant, Commander Benteen. Benjamin was my executive officer aboard the Okinawa. And a damn fine one too. 
SISKO: I did all right. 
BENTEEN: Ah, don't be modest. Admiral Leyton has had his share of executive officers and you're the only one he ever speaks fondly of. 
(Everyone say Hi! to Susan Gibney, previously seen as 
Leah Brahms
.) 
LEYTON: Present company excluded. 
SISKO: Admiral Leyton is the one who recommended me for the job on Deep Space Nine. 
LEYTON: One of my better ideas. You must be Odo. 
ODO: That's right. 
LEYTON: Forgive me for staring, but you're the first changeling I've ever met. 
BENTEEN: That you know of. 
ODO: I sympathise with your problem. Uncovering changeling infiltrators is no easy task. 
LEYTON: Well, with the help of the two of you, I trust it'll be a little easier. 
SISKO: What exactly do you want us to do? 
BENTEEN: We'd like to confer with you and Odo, see if there's anything about the Founders you left out of your official reports. 
ODO: I'll help any way I can, but I think you'll find my reports were quite thorough. 
SISKO: Admiral, I doubt you brought us all this way just for a debriefing. 
LEYTON: Of course not. Ben, Earth is in danger. Maybe the greatest danger it's faced since the last world war. Something has to be done about these shape-shifters. Which is why you're here. You know more about the Dominion than anyone in Starfleet. And so, effective immediately, I'm making you acting head of Starfleet Security here on Earth. 
BENTEEN: Congratulations, Captain. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(A cosy, friendly dining place with baseball photos and a stuffed alligator hanging from the ceiling. The kitchen is in full view of the patrons.) 
JOSEPH: This is one beautiful fish. Seems a shame to eat a trout this pretty. Why, you should thank me for the privilege of simply looking at it. Well, go on, take a bite. It won't bite you back. Now, I don't want to see anybody studying the dessert menu. If you order anything but the bread pudding souffl�, you'll be making a mistake you will regret the rest of your lives. 
SISKO: You should listen to him. The man knows his bread pudding. 
JOSEPH: Benjamin! 
SISKO: Dad. 
JOSEPH: Jake-o. 
JAKE: Hey. 
(Hugs all round.) 
JOSEPH: When are you going to stop growing? If you keep this up, you'll be bumping your head on that alligator before too long. 
JAKE: I remember when you used to tell me that alligator was just in stasis, and you let it out at night to guard the restaurant. 
JOSEPH: I had to stop doing that. It got to be too much trouble wrestling it back up to the ceiling every morning. Come on. I'll get Nathan to bring you both something to eat and we can catch up. Nathan, some gumbo for these fine young men. 
NATHAN: Yes, sah. 
JOSEPH: So, where's this shape-shifting fellow you were coming with? 
SISKO: With things the way they are, Odo thought it would be better if he stayed at Starfleet Headquarters. 
JOSEPH: I don't blame him. I haven't seen people so nervous since the Borg scare. Me, personally, I'd like to meet him. Though I have to admit, I'm a little suspicious about anyone who doesn't eat. 
JAKE: Grandpa. 
SISKO: Well, aren't you going to eat anything? 
JOSEPH: I ate before you got here. Son, don't look at me that way. 
SISKO: You've lost weight. 
JOSEPH: You think so? 
JAKE: The doctors said you have to keep your weight up. 
JOSEPH: Don't you start, too. I have a vat of crayfish in the back that needs cleaning and it's got your name on it. Now I'm going to say this one time and one time only. I am fine. I'm happy, I'm healthy, and I'm planning on celebrating at least fifty more birthdays. Satisfied? 
SISKO: Gumbo's as good as I remember. 
JOSEPH: Starfleet must be taking the shape-shifters pretty seriously to have you come all the way back here. 
SISKO: It is serious, Dad. 
JOSEPH: Twenty seven people murdered right here on Earth. Never thought I'd see the day. But now that my son's on the case, I feel a lot better. 
NOG: Jake! 
(Nog is in a grey Starfleet cadet's uniform) 
JAKE: Nog? 
NOG: Captain Sisko. What do you think? 
SISKO: You look good, Cadet. 
NOG: You think so? 
JAKE: Nog, I thought I was going to see you tomorrow at the Academy. 
NOG: You are. I'm just here for dinner. Nathan, the usual. 
SISKO: I didn't know you liked Creole food. 
NOG: I don't. I like tube grubs, and your father is the only person on this planet who can get me live ones. 
JOSEPH: I've been thinking of adding them to our menu. Of course I'll have to cook them for my human customers, serve them with a nice remoulade. 
NOG: Cook them? What good are tube grubs if they don't wriggle on the way down? 
JAKE: So how's everything at the Academy? 
NOG: Jake, they call it the Academy, but what it really is is school. 
JAKE: I want to hear about it. 
NOG: It's a lot of work. Lots of classes, lots of studying. I'm doing okay. Now where are those tube grubs? 
(Later, the last of the satisfied customers are leaving.) 
JOSEPH: Good night. You come back soon. Come on, Ben. I've got a nice bottle of cognac I've been saving for a special occasion, and I think this qualifies. 
SISKO: I think you're right. 
(Sisko and Joseph leave) 
NOG: Ah. There's nothing like a full stomach to make life worth living. 
JAKE: So, you going to tell me what's on your mind or not? 
NOG: What do you mean? 
JAKE: I mean you didn't stay here until closing just to get one more root beer. Something's up. 
NOG: My friend the writer. Always looking for a good story. 
JAKE: If you don't want to tell me, fine. Don't tell me. 
NOG: It's nothing. It's stupid. 
JAKE: All right. Forget about it. 
NOG: It's just the Academy is different than I thought it would be. 
JAKE: Different how? 
NOG: Some of the cadets. They're kind of standoffish, especially the upperclassmen. 
JAKE: Because you're a Ferengi? 
NOG: That's what I thought at first. But then I heard some of the other freshmen complaining about the same thing. 
JAKE: Complaining about what? 
NOG: Little things. For instance, there's this group called Red Squad made up of all the top students. They're always going off on trips, getting special training. None of them will even talk to me. 
JAKE: You've only been in the Academy for a month. You can't expect to fit in right away. Who knows, one of these days you might even be in Red Squad. I'm sure if you let them get to know you, show them you're a good guy to be around, everything'll work out. 
NOG: I am a good guy to be around, aren't I? 
JAKE: I always thought so. 
[President's office]
(Paris, with Le Tour Eiffel visible through the window.) 
LEYTON: Mister President, I'd like to introduce Captain Sisko. 
JARESH-INYO: Captain. I've seen your record. Most exemplary. 
SISKO: Thank you, sir. 
LEYTON: Captain Sisko has several suggestions on how to combat Dominion infiltration. I think you'll find them very interesting. 
JARESH-INYO: (reads the PADD) Hmm. I understand the need for increased security, but blood screenings? Phaser sweeps? 
SISKO: They've proven very effective on Deep Space Nine. 
JARESH-INYO: I'm sure they have. But I hope you'll keep in mind that this is Earth, and not a military installation. 
LEYTON: Which means it's a lot more vulnerable. We have to take precautions. 
JARESH-INYO: Precautions may be advisable, but I will not disrupt the lives of the population. Despite what happened at Antwerp, I believe the changeling threat to be somewhat less serious than Starfleet does. 
LEYTON: Mister President, I assure you the threat is real. 
JARESH-INYO: For all we know, there was only one changeling on Earth, and he may not even be here anymore. 
SISKO: But if he is here, we have a problem. There's no telling how much damage one changeling could do. 
JARESH-INYO: Forgive me for saying so, Captain, but you sound a little paranoid. 
SISKO: Do I? 
(Sisko's briefcase morphs into Odo) 
ODO: Forgive the intrusion, Mister President, but as you can see, Starfleet has every right to be concerned. 
SISKO: Allow me to introduce Odo, my Chief of Security. 
JARESH-INYO: A very effective entrance, Mister Odo. 
ODO: One that never should have been allowed to take place. Admiral Leyton and Captain Sisko walked in here without being searched, without being blood-tested, and without having their possessions subjected to phaser sweeps. 
SISKO: If Odo was a Dominion infiltrator, he could have killed you. 
LEYTON: Or replaced you. The way security is now, a changeling could get anywhere on Earth, replace anyone, even you. 
SISKO: Mister President, all we want is your permission to increase security at Federation and Starfleet installations here on Earth. Blood tests will be limited to high-ranking Federation officials, Starfleet officers and their families. The average citizen won't even notice the difference. I wish these security measures were not necessary, but the safety of Earth and the entire Federation depends on them. 
JARESH-INYO: You present a convincing argument, Captain. It seems I have no choice but to accept your proposals. 
SISKO: Thank you, sir. 
JARESH-INY0: Don't thank me. If I could think of another solution, I would use it. It took centuries for Earth to evolve into the peaceful haven it is today. I would hate to be remembered as the Federation President who destroyed paradise. 
SISKO: We're not looking to destroy paradise, Mister President. We're looking to save it. 
[Sisko's SF office]
SISKO: Activate the phaser. 
(A device above the door sweeps the room for several seconds. Eventually the swiss cheese plant surrenders.) 
SISKO: That's enough. How do you feel? 
ODO: That time I definitely experienced discomfort. 
SISKO: What was the setting? 
BENTEEN: Three point one. If we set the phasers at three point four, we should be able to stun any changeling we hit and force them back into a gelatinous state. 
ODO: I'd push it to three point five just to be on the safe side. But if you want to do any more tests, you'll have to get another guinea pig. I've been shot quite enough for one day. 
SISKO: Three point five it is. I want these units installed in every room at Starfleet and Federation Headquarters, then start working on the orbital stations. 
BENTEEN: We'll have them in place by tomorrow night. I want to thank you, Captain. 
SISKO: Thank me? For what? 
BENTEEN: For convincing the President to implement these security measures. It feels like we're finally on the right track. 
(Benteen leaves.) 
ODO: Huh. You'd think she would have thanked me as well. I'm the one who got shot thirteen times today. 
(Nog enters.) 
NOG: Captain Sisko. I hope I'm not interrupting anything. 
SISKO: We were just about finished. 
NOG: Can I speak to you for a minute? In private. 
(Odo leaves.) 
NOG: Captain, I just want to say I appreciate everything you've done for me so far, and 
SISKO: Jake says you're having difficulty in school. 
NOG: He told you that? 
SISKO: He tells me everything. 
NOG: I don't want you to get the wrong idea. 
SISKO: Nog, you and I both knew that it was going to take a while for you to adjust to the Academy and for the Academy to adjust to you. 
NOG: I know, but it turned out to be even more difficult than I expected. 
SISKO: You're just going to have to stick with it. 
NOG: And I intend to. In fact, I think I've come up with something to help me make some new friends. 
SISKO: Good. 
NOG: But I need your help. I want to join Red Squad. 
SISKO: Red Squad? 
NOG: What do you think? 
SISKO: I don't know what to think. I've never heard of it. 
NOG: It's an elite squad of cadets at the Academy. You know, the best of the best. They get special classes, simulated missions, off-campus training sessions, all kinds of things. 
SISKO: A group of elite cadets? They never had anything like that when I was at the Academy. 
NOG: It's pretty new. It's a way of rewarding excellence among the cadets. I have the grades to qualify, but I need to be sponsored by a high-ranking officer. 
SISKO: And you want me to put your name in for consideration? 
NOG: All I'm asking for is a chance to prove myself. 
SISKO: I'm kind of busy right now, Nog. But if I get the chance, I'll see what I can do. 
NOG: Thank you, sir. This means a lot to me. 
SISKO: I can see that. Dismissed, Cadet. 
NOG: Yes, sir. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(Joseph is folding napkins.) 
JOSEPH: Well, look who's here. Come in, stranger. 
SISKO: Sorry. I haven't been around much lately. Things have gotten a little busy. 
JOSEPH: You want to tell me about it? 
SISKO: I'm afraid I can't. 
JOSEPH: You'd think that Admiral could spare you for a few hours a day to visit your father. With you in San Francisco and Jake off visiting that school in New Zealand, it's like the two of you aren't even here. 
SISKO: You know, Dad, you could come and visit us at the station once in a while. 
JOSEPH: Don't start that again. Earth's my home. It's where I belong. Besides, what would happen to the restaurant if I went gallivanting around the galaxy? You think Nathan can handle this place on his own? 
SISKO: Nathan will be running things around here sooner than you think if you don't take better care of yourself. I had a talk with your doctor and he tells me that you haven't been in to see him for eight months. 
JOSEPH: The man's an idiot. He's lived in New Orleans twenty years and can't tell the difference between Creole food and Cajun food. 
SISKO: Maybe not, but he can tell the difference between a healthy body and one with progressive atherosclerosis. He says that if you don't come in for vascular regeneration therapy, that this restaurant will be looking for a new owner. 
JOSEPH: Ben, at my age, staying healthy is a full time job, and I am too old to work two jobs. Now, how long until you're due back at Starfleet Headquarters? 
SISKO: I've got about an hour. 
JOSEPH: Just enough time to take a walk to Audubon Park. You up for a stroll with your old man? 
SISKO: I can't think of anything I'd rather do. 
JOSEPH: Nathan, don't forget to stir the gumbo. 
[Starfleet HQ]
(A seagull lands and morphs into Odo) 
BENTEEN: Odo. That was really something. I've never seen you imitate a lifeform before. 
ODO: Well, I was just taking a little aerial tour of San Francisco. It's quite nice. Not as ancient as the cities on Bajor but almost as impressive. 
BENTEEN: It makes me wonder how many other changelings might be flying around up there. 
ODO: If all they're doing is flying around imitating seagulls, we don't have much to worry about. 
LEYTON: I doubt that other changelings are wasting their time imitating birds. They don't all share Odo's lack of skill when it comes to mimicking humans. 
ODO: That's right, they don't. I'm glad you're keeping that in mind. 
BENTEEN: Well, if you ask me, that was a pretty convincing seagull. 
ODO: Thank you. Though I'm not sure the gulls would agree. 
LEYTON: Commander, I think we've taken up enough of Mister Odo's time. Keep practicing. You'll have those birds fooled in no time. 
ODO: Admiral. 
LEYTON: Yes. 
ODO: I know that Starfleet Command has always been a little uneasy about a changeling working in their midst. I just wanted to say how much I appreciate the trust you've shown in me. Thank you. 
(Leyton ignores Odo's outstretched hand) 
LEYTON: You're welcome. 
(So Odo grabs Leyton's arm and starts a Link) 
LEYTON: Well done, Odo. 
(Leyton throws Odo off.) 
BENTEEN: Are you all right? 
ODO: I'm fine. 
(Leyton morphs into a seagull and flies off.) 
[Sisko's SF office]
LEYTON: How did you know he wasn't me? 
ODO: I'm not sure exactly. It's as if I could feel the changeling's hostility toward me. 
SISKO: You're the only changeling who's ever harmed one of his own people. I'm sure that hasn't made you many friends. 
LEYTON: What I'd like to know is, why was he imitating me? 
BENTEEN: You have access to all our security procedures, all our protocols. That makes you a logical target. 
LEYTON: I suppose so. 
BENTEEN: The bottom line is a changeling infiltrated the grounds of Starfleet Headquarters, imitated the Admiral, and got away scot-free. Our security measures aren't working. 
SISKO: We're doing everything the President will let us do. 
BENTEEN: Maybe that's not enough. 
ODO: We could talk to the President again. 
LEYTON: I'm afraid that would be a waste of time. Jaresh-Inyo would be a fine president in peacetime, but we have a war on our hands. He doesn't seem to understand that. All he cares about is not upsetting people. But humans are tougher than he thinks. We've created a paradise here and we're willing to fight to protect it. 
SISKO: And you think the President isn't willing to fight? 
LEYTON: I think the President is a long way from home. This isn't his world. We can't expect him to care about it the way we do. 
(Comm. beep) 
SISKO: Sisko here. 
CREWMAN [OC]: Captain, your son's trying to contact you. He says it's urgent. 
SISKO: Put him through. 
JAKE [on monitor]: Dad, you'd better get down here right away. 
SISKO: What's wrong? 
JAKE [on monitor: It's Grandpa. He's been arrested. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
SISKO: What's going on here? 
OFFICER: Captain, we never meant for things to get out of hand. 
JOSEPH: (in the kitchen area) What did you think would happen? Storming in here and accusing me and my grandson of being a couple of shape-shifters. 
OFFICER: We never accused you of being a shape-shifter, Mister Sisko. We were just carrying out our orders. All family members of Starfleet personnel are required to submit to blood screenings. No exceptions. 
JOSEPH: That's the most ridiculous thing I ever heard of. Do you believe that? 
SISKO: I should. I signed the orders myself. 
JOSEPH: Now why would you go and do a stupid thing like that? 
SISKO: Dad, it has to be done. 
JAKE: Grandpa, look, I'll take the test first. Go ahead. 
(So the young officer takes his blood. It's okay.) 
SISKO: Now me. 
OFFICER: Sir, that's not necessary. 
SISKO: Do it anyway. 
(He's okay too.) 
SISKO: it's your turn. 
JOSEPH: Jake, do you think I'm a shape-shifter? 
JAKE: Come on, Grandpa. 
JOSEPH: Answer the question. 
JAKE: No, I don't think you're a shape-shifter. 
JOSEPH: At least somebody in my family has some sense. 
SISKO: Dad! 
JOSEPH: I don't want to hear about it. You take these two vampires and tell them to either sit down and grab a menu or get out of my restaurant. 
SISKO: Jake, get them a menu. 
OFFICER: But sir. 
SISKO: I would recommend the shrimp Creole. Look, Dad 
JOSEPH: I don't want to hear it. 
(Sisko joins Joseph in the kitchen.) 
SISKO: Listen to me. You have got to take the test. 
JOSEPH: Why should I? If I were an enemy spy looking to replace someone, I think I could come up with better choices than an old chef. 
SISKO: Yeah, you're probably right. But this isn't about you. We've got civilian families living on starships and Starfleet installations all over the Federation. The only way we can secure those facilities is to test everyone there, whether they wear a uniform or not. 
JOSEPH: I'm not living on a Starfleet installation. 
SISKO: Dad, if we're going to test the family members of one Starfleet officer, we must to test them all. 
JOSEPH: You may want to test everyone, but that doesn't mean we all have to cooperate. I didn't take an oath to Starfleet. Neither did Jake or your sister or anyone in your family. We have rights, Ben, including the right to be as stubborn or thickheaded as we want. 
SISKO: Damn it, Dad. Can't you cooperate just one time? You don't take your medication, you don't go to the doctor, you won't let Judith help you in the restaurant. Just one time, please do what you're asked. 
JOSEPH: I wish I could, but what you're asking me to do is wrong. You can't go around making people prove they are who they say they are. That's no way to live and I'm not going to go along with it. Now, if you want to make yourself useful, start some water boiling for the shrimp. 
SISKO: Come on, Dad. Don't be this way. If I have to, I will get a warrant 
JOSEPH: And what? Hold me down and force me to give you my blood? Because that's the only way you'll get. Damn it. Now look what I've done. 
(Joseph has cut his finger with his chopping knife. He puts it under the tap as Sisko stares at the blood left on the knife.) 
JOSEPH: Jake? 
JAKE: Yeah? 
JOSEPH: I've got a dermal regenerator under the. Benjamin Lafayette Sisko. What the hell has gotten into your head? You actually thought I was one of them, didn't you? 
SISKO: I don't know. I wasn't sure. 
JOSEPH: This business has got you so twisted around you can't think straight. You're seeing shape-shifters everywhere. Maybe you ought to think about something for a minute. If I was a smart shape-shifter, a really good one, the first thing I would do would be to grab some poor soul off the street, absorb every ounce of his blood, and let it out on cue whenever someone like you tried to test me. Don't you see? There isn't a test that's been created a smart man can't find his way around. You aren't going to catch shape-shifters using some gadget. The only thing you can count on in this life is 
(Joseph gasps in pain.) 
JAKE: Grandpa! 
(Sisko catches Joseph in his arms.) 
[Sisko's SF office]
SISKO: The EMT's said he'd be okay and they were right. It turns out it was just a mild stroke brought on by his atherosclerosis. 
ODO: How's Jake handling it? 
SISKO: He is very upset. He knows as well as I do that if my father doesn't take better care of himself 
ODO: I've found that when it comes to doing what's best for you, you humanoids have the distressing habit of doing the exact opposite. 
SISKO: I can't argue with that. But what bothers me is that for a few minutes there, I really believed that my own father was a changeling. 
ODO: A reasonable assumption, considering the circumstances. 
SISKO: I don't care if it's reasonable or not. But when a son can't trust his own father? 
ODO: That's why my people came here. To undermine the trust and mutual understanding the Federation is built on. 
SISKO: But what if my father's right? What if all our precautions turn out to be useless? 
ODO: Maybe they will. But that doesn't mean you should give up. My people are here and you've got to fight them with whatever you've got. 
SISKO: I hope you don't take this the wrong way, Constable, but there are times I wish you'd never found your people. 
ODO: Believe me, Captain, sometimes I feel the same way. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(Joseph is back serving the customers) 
JAKE: Grandpa, would you please sit down? 
JOSEPH: Enjoy your meal. Your food'll be right out. 
(Then Joseph sits down at Jake's table.) 
JOSEPH: What's that look supposed to mean? 
JAKE: You sat down. 
JOSEPH: You're damn right I sat down. I feel terrible. 
JAKE: You should be in bed. 
JOSEPH: Jake, the only time you should be in bed is if you're sleeping, dying, or making love to a beautiful woman. I'm not tired, I'm not dying, and the truth is I'm too old for beautiful women, so I might as well be here. Your father's the one you should be worried about. 
JAKE: Dad? Why? 
JOSEPH: I've never seen him so tense. It's like he's carrying the weight of the world on his shoulders. 
JAKE: He is. 
JOSEPH: I suppose he is at that. 
(The lights go out.) 
JOSEPH: What happened? 
JAKE: I don't know. The whole block's dark. 
[Sisko's SF office]
(Power's out in SFHQ too. The office door is forced open.) 
ODO: You all right? 
SISKO: I'm fine. Admiral, what's going on? 
LEYTON: From what we can tell, Earth's entire power relay system's been knocked offline. Even Starfleet's emergency backup's been affected. 
SISKO: How could that happen? 
LEYTON: I don't know, but if you ask me, there's only one possible explanation. 
ODO: Sabotage. 
SISKO: The changelings. 
ODO: Take down the power relays, and you neutralise sensors, transporters, surface-based defence installations. 
SISKO: In other words, Earth is defenceless. 
LEYTON: If the Dominion attacks now, we don't stand a chance. 
[President's office]
(Dawn or sunset - the sun is just over the horizon) 
JARESH-INYO: I'm not interested in excuses. It is imperative we get the power relay system functioning again. 
(Sisko, Odo, Leyton and two Security Officers beam in) 
LEYTON: Mister President. 
JARESH-INYO: How did you people get here? 
SISKO: We contacted the Lakota and used their transporters. Mister President, as acting head of Earth Security, I must advise you to declare a State of Emergency. 
JARESH-INYO: You're serious. With the exception of the Borg incident, there hasn't been a State of Emergency declared on Earth in a century. 
SISKO: I am aware of that, but I have reason to believe that a Dominion warfleet may be in the Alpha Quadrant headed for Earth. 
JARESH-INYO: Do you have evidence to back this up? 
SISKO: Just before we left Deep Space Nine, the wormhole was exhibiting some unusual behaviour, opening and closing for no apparent reason. 
ODO: We didn't detect any ships coming through at the time, but the Dominion might have been using some kind of cloaking technology. 
JARESH-INYO: I wasn't aware the Dominion had cloaking technology. 
ODO: The combined Cardassian and Romulan fleet that the Dominion destroyed in the Gamma Quadrant was equipped with cloaking devices. Who knows what my people might have taken from the wreckage? 
JARESH-INYO: How long until the power relays are fixed? 
LEYTON: From what we can tell, the changelings infected the system with some kind of self-replicating computer protocol. It jumped from one power relay to the next, disrupting every system it came in contact with. 
ODO: The only way to correct the problem is to shut down the entire grid, purge all the operating systems, and restart the relays. 
LEYTON: And that could take days. 
SISKO: Which is why it is imperative that you declare a State of Emergency. 
JARESH-INYO: What good will that do when we have no way to defend ourselves? 
LEYTON: Mister President, we can use the Lakota's transporters and communications system to mobilise every Starfleet officer on Earth in less than twelve hours. We've been preparing for something like this for a long time. We have stockpiles of phaser rifles, personal forcefields, photon grenades, enough to equip an entire army. I can start getting men on the streets immediately. 
JARESH-INYO: What you're asking me to do is declare martial law. 
LEYTON: What I'm asking you to do is let us defend this planet. We don't know what the changelings will do next, but we have to be ready for them. Ben, tell him. 
SISKO: Sir, the thought of filling the streets with armed troops is as disturbing to me as it is to you, but not as disturbing as the thought of a Jem'Hadar army landing on Earth without opposition. The Jem'Hadar are the most brutal and efficient soldiers I've ever encountered. They don't care about the conventions of war or protecting civilians. They will not limit themselves to military targets. They'll be waging the kind of war that Earth hasn't seen since the founding of the Federation. 
ODO: At the same time, my people will continue to undermine Earth's defences in any way they can. This power outage is only the beginning. 
JARESH-INYO: I never sought this job. I was content to simply represent my people on the Federation Council. When they asked me to submit my name for election, I almost said no. Today I wish I had. 
LEYTON: We appreciate your feelings, Mister President, but we don't have time for regrets. You accepted the job and now it's yours. 
ODO: Mister President, there are people all over this planet right now huddled in the dark, terrified about what might happen next. They're waiting for a sign, something to reassure them that everything will be all right. But they won't wait long. Fear is a powerful and dangerous thing. And if you don't act, if you don't show them that they're not alone, then fear will surely take over. 
SISKO: Give us the authority we need, Mister President, and we will take care of the rest. 
(There's a long pause, then Jaresh-Inyo taps his PADD - 4567 security codes.) 
JARESH-INYO: Earth is in your hands, gentlemen. Do what needs to be done. 
LEYTON: Thank you, sir. You've made the right decision. 
JARESH-INYO: I hope you're right, for all our sakes. 
[Sisko's restaurant]
(Jake is sitting at a candlelit table when he hears voices outside.) 
JAKE: Grandpa! Grandpa, wake up. 
JOSEPH: I'm not sleeping. I'm checking my eyelids for holes. 
JAKE: You'd better come take a look at this. 
JOSEPH: Take a look at what? 
JAKE: Come on. 
(They move aside the curtain at the door, and see Starfleet security beaming in, armed.) 
To Be Continued... 

