Episode Number: 436
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Shadowplay
Shadowplay
Stardate: 47603.3
Original Airdate: 21 Feb, 1994
Science Officer's log, stardate 47603.3. Commander Sisko has assigned me to investigate an unusual particle field detected on the other side of the wormhole. Odo has come along to Gamma Quadrant, hoping to find clues to his origin. 
[Runabout]
DAX: So you see, Ensign Manwaring has spent the last two weeks avoiding the assay office because he thought that Freyla was in love with Lieutenant Strek, but all the while Strek was seeing Security Officer Seelee. And Freyla was waiting for Manwaring to ask her out. 
ODO: Officer Seelee has seemed distracted at work lately. I'm going to have to talk to her about this when I get back to the station. 
DAX: Odo, I didn't tell you that story to get Seelee in trouble. 
ODO: Frankly, Lieutenant, I fail to see any point in your story at all, except perhaps to illustrate the foolish humanoid preoccupation with romantic coupling. 
DAX: The point is that sometimes we don't see true love even when it's staring us right in the face. 
ODO: How fascinating. 
DAX: Let me give you another example. You know Lysia Arlin? 
ODO: The Bolian woman who runs the jumja kiosk. 
DAX: I've noticed she's been making a lot of visits to the Security Office lately. 
ODO: She has a cousin who's interested in a career in law enforcement. 
DAX: You don't say. 
ODO: Are you implying that Lysia Arlin is interested in me? Ridiculous. I would have noticed. 
DAX: Exactly my point. 
ODO: You must be mistaken. 
DAX: And how can you be so sure? 
ODO: Because women don't react to me in that manner. 
DAX: Are you saying that you've never had a female friend? 
ODO: I consider Major Kira a friend. 
DAX: That's not what I meant. I'm talking about an intimate friendship. 
ODO: That's a very personal question. 
DAX: I'm sorry, but after seven lifetimes the impersonal questions aren't much fun anymore. 
ODO: Huh. 
DAX: Looks like we found our particle field. They're omicron particles. 
ODO: Is that unusual? 
DAX: Omicron particles are incredibly rare. They can only be created by certain types of matter-antimatter reactions. The field seems to be coming from the second planet in the system. Let's go a little closer. (zoom) That's strange. The particles are concentrated in one small valley. 
ODO: Sensors aren't picking up any lifeforms. 
DAX: The particle field could be interfering with the sensors. We'd better beam down for a closer look. 
[Village square]
(Night in a large paved area surrounded by purple buildings. There's a big device in the middle) 
DAX: I'm still getting a lot of interference. The particle field must be blocking the tricorder functions. 
(They go to the device) 
DAX: The interference seems to be coming from here. This must be the source of the field. It's probably some kind of matter-antimatter reactor. 
ODO: Lieutenant, I suggest we leave before we're discovered. 
DAX: Give me a minute. 
(Odo turns to see a weapon pointed at them) 
ODO: Take all the time you want. 
[Quark's]
(After hours. Someone rings the doorbell) 
QUARK: It's about time. Enter. Where have you been? I've been waiting hours. Major. Er, I'm sorry. We're closed. You'll have to come back in the morning. 
KIRA: Oh, I didn't come here for a drink. I thought you'd like to know your cousin Kono just tried to come aboard the station. 
QUARK: Kono? Here? What an unexpected pleasure. 
KIRA: He's gone, Quark. When we tried to talk to him, he beamed onto a departing Tellarite freighter. 
QUARK: There must be some mistake. Why would Kono be coming here? 
KIRA: I was wondering the same thing myself, so I did a little checking. Your cousin's wanted for robbing a museum on Cardassia Five. My guess is he thought someone here would help him sell the merchandise. 
QUARK: Outrageous. You have no proof of that. 
KIRA: Quark, get this into that twisted little brain of yours. If you thought you were going to get away with anything while Odo's gone, think again. I'm watching you. 
QUARK: Major, you make it sound like you don't like me. 
KIRA: Don't like you? You collaborated with the Cardassians, you cheat your customers, and you're a danger to this station. I don't just not like you, I despise you. 
(Kira leaves) 
QUARK: I'm sorry I mentioned it. 
[Sisko's quarters]
JAKE: A job? What do I need a job for? 
SISKO: You're fifteen years old. It's time you took a little responsibility. Look, Nog works, doesn't he? 
JAKE: Yeah. 
SISKO: You're almost as old as he is. When I was your age, I had a job, and it was a terrific experience. 
JAKE: All right. I'll talk to Nog and see if he can get me a job at Quark's. 
SISKO: Quarks? I was thinking more along the lines of you helping out Chief O'Brien. 
JAKE: Chief O'Brien? 
SISKO: You do like Chief O'Brien, don't you? 
JAKE: He's okay, but I don't know anything about engineering. 
SISKO: This is the perfect opportunity to learn. Besides it'll look great on your application to Starfleet Academy. 
JAKE: Okay, I'll give it a try. 
SISKO: That's all I ask. 
[Protector's office]
ODO: Are we being accused of some kind of crime? 
COLYUS: Have you committed one? 
DAX: We've just arrived here. 
COLYUS: So you keep saying. 
DAX: If you want, you can check our ship's logs and they'll prove it to you. 
COLYUS: Logs can be tampered with. Well, you ought know that. After all, you claim to be a Security Officer. 
ODO: I am a Security Officer and I've had enough of this. If we were guilty, we wouldn't even be here right now. I'll prove it. Computer, one to beam up. 
(Odo beams out and Colyus looks around, worried.) 
DAX: Don't worry, he'll be right back. 
(Odo beams in, sitting down) 
DAX: What did I tell you? 
COLYUS: Now that's interesting, you disappearing like that, because I've got twenty two people who've disappeared without a trace. 
ODO: Twenty two missing people? Did they all disappear at the same time? 
COLYUS: No, it started in the fall. But the last victim vanished six hours ago. 
DAX: Six hours ago we weren't even in this system. If you want, you can accompany us back to our station and they will verify everything we've told you. 
ODO: Do you have any other suspects? 
COLYUS: You were my only ones. I'm not saying everybody here is perfect. We have some petty thefts, an occasional fight, but kidnapping or murder? No, no, we've never had anything like that before. 
ODO: I see. So, Have you scanned the area for signs of transporter activity? 
COLYUS: It was the first thing I tried. I didn't find anything. You know, I've been protector here for almost ten years. I like to think I'm pretty good at my job. People trust me to solve their problems. But whoever's behind these disappearances is a lot smarter than I am. I have to admit, I'm starting to get desperate. 
ODO: Maybe what you need is a little help. 
COLYUS: Maybe. 
[outside Rurigan's house]
(They walk across the village square and meet an old man.) 
COLYUS: Rurigan. 
RURIGAN: So, these are the strangers I heard about. Shouldn't they be in a cell? 
COLYUS: I'm satisfied they have nothing to do with the disappearances. In fact, Odo here is a Security Officer. He's going to try to help us. 
RURIGAN: And how do you plan to do that? 
ODO: I understand your daughter is the latest victim. When was the last time you saw her? 
RURIGAN: This morning, at first meal. But Taya said she saw her later, in her workroom around midday. 
ODO: Taya? 
RURIGAN: My granddaughter. Colyus, Anetra's gone just like the others. We're never going to find them. 
ODO: How can you be so sure? 
RURIGAN: Let's just say I haven't been proven wrong yet. 
DAX: I'd like to scan the area again for transporter activity, in case you missed something. 
COLYUS: Go right ahead. 
DAX: I'm still not getting a clear reading. The omicron particles put out by the reactor are creating too much interference. 
COLYUS: It must be your equipment. Our scanners never give any trouble. 
(Colyus gives her his tricorder.) 
DAX: Certain kinds of transporters leave behind a residual electrostatic charge. If we could check Anetra's workroom? 
(Dax and Colyus leave) 
ODO: If you don't mind, I'd like to talk to your granddaughter. 
RURIGAN: Well, last time I saw her she was across the square. I'll take you to her. 
[Village square]
(The little girl is sadly playing with a top) 
RURIGAN: Taya? Don't be afraid, Taya. This is a friend of Protector Colyus. He just wants you to answer a few questions. 
TAYA: Do I have to? 
RURIGAN: Not if you don't want to. 
ODO: But it would help if I could talk to you about your mother's disappearance. 
TAYA: She hasn't disappeared. She'll be back. 
ODO: The last time you saw your mother, did she seem upset about anything? Nervous, perhaps, or worried? 
TAYA: She seemed fine. When will she be coming home? 
RURIGAN: I don't know, Taya. Let's go. It's past your bedtime. 
ODO: I'd like to ask a few more questions. 
RURIGAN: It'll wait till morning. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Chief, here's the new apprentice we discussed. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. Welcome aboard. Well, let's get to work. I was just about to run a diagnostic on the primary system core. 
SISKO: Mister Sisko. I almost forgot. (a Starfleet comm. badge) For you. 
JAKE: Thanks, Dad. 
SISKO: It's standard equipment for all station personnel. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: Let me get this straight, Major. You want me to spy on Quark for you? 
KIRA: I wouldn't call it spying, exactly. I just thought you might, you know, keep an eye on him while Odo's away. When you're not busy. 
BASHIR: It's no problem, Major. 
KIRA: Then you'll do it? 
BASHIR: I look forward to it. Garak has been lecturing me on surveillance techniques. This will give me a chance to try some of them out. 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Kira. 
KIRA: This is Kira. 
SISKO [OC]: Major, I thought you might like to know we've received word that Vedek Bareil is coming aboard the station. 
KIRA: Coming aboard? When? 
SISKO [OC]: His ship just arrived at docking bay twelve. 
[Corridor]
KIRA: I wish you'd given us a little more notice. We could've arranged a formal reception. 
BAREIL: That's exactly what I wanted to avoid. 
KIRA: What brings you to the station? 
BAREIL: Prylar Rhit invited me to speak at the station shrine. But, to be honest, I've been looking for an opportunity to see you. 
KIRA: Really? I'm honoured. 
BAREIL: Honoured? Actually, I was hoping you'd be happy to see me. 
KIRA: Oh, I am. Very happy. 
[Promenade]
(Quark notices Kira and Bareil together, and smiles) 
[Village square]
(Taya and two other children are playing with the top) 
ODO: Hello, Taya. (the others run off) Remember me? We met last night. 
TAYA: You wanted to ask me questions. 
ODO: That's right. About your mother. I understand you were the last one to see her. 
TAYA: I guess. What happened to your face? 
ODO: Nothing happened to my face. I'm a shape-shifter. I just don't do faces very well. I have the ability to change my shape to look like other things. 
TAYA: You mean you're a changeling? 
ODO: That's right. 
TAYA: There's no such thing as changelings. They're make-believe. Everyone knows that. 
ODO: Well, I'm not make-believe. 
TAYA: All right, then let me see you change into something. 
ODO: Maybe later. Right now I feel like talking. 
TAYA: If I were a changeling, I'd change shapes all the time. Everyone would want to be my friend. 
ODO: I wish it were that easy. 
TAYA: Why wouldn't it be? 
ODO: When I was younger, people were always asking me to change shape for them. They'd pretend to be my friends, but all they wanted was to see me become a chair or an animal. None of them ever really cared about me. 
TAYA: Maybe they were scared of you. 
ODO: Some of them probably were. 
TAYA: I'm not afraid of you. 
ODO: I'm glad to hear that. 
TAYA: Were your parents changelings too? 
ODO: I never knew my parents. I've been looking for them a long time. 
TAYA: My father died when I was four. I don't remember him very well. The last time I saw my mother, she was in her workroom making pottery. When I went to get her for midday meal, she was gone. 
ODO: How did she act when you last saw her? 
TAYA: Happy. She was making a vase for Mister Depnen, the baker. He really likes my mom so he always saves us the best loaf of greenbread. 
ODO: Has your mother ever gone anywhere before? A trip? Vacation? 
TAYA: We don't go on trips. 
ODO: Never? 
TAYA: No, we never leave the valley. 
ODO: Why not? 
TAYA: Nobody ever leaves the valley. Everything we need is right here. 
ODO: I see. 
TAYA: My mother's never coming back, is she? 
ODO: Why do you say that? 
TAYA: That's what grandfather told me. 
ODO: Taya, I don't know where your mother is, but I promise you, I'm going to do everything I can to find her and bring her back to you. 
[Replimat]
(Groups of rods are laid out on a table) 
O'BRIEN: Okay, one more time. These are all isolinear rods. The ones with the white labels contain data relating to the engineering system controls, the red labelled ones are for library and information storage, and the blue ones are? 
JAKE: I'm never going to get this. 
O'BRIEN: Give yourself some time. I didn't get a handle on this stuff until almost a year after I joined Starfleet. I mean, it's not like you're going off to the Academy tomorrow, is it? (Jake sighs) What's wrong? 
JAKE: Nothing. It's just that, why does everyone assume that I'm going to go to the Academy? 
O'BRIEN: You want to go, don't you? 
JAKE: Not really. 
O'BRIEN: Does your father know? 
JAKE: He wouldn't understand. 
O'BRIEN: I know how you feel. You know what my father wanted me to be? A musician. It's true. I was supposed to be a cello player. He made me practice every day. I got to be pretty good, and when I was seventeen, he sent a recorded audition to the Aldebaran Music Academy. 
JAKE: What happened? 
O'BRIEN: I got in. It was the happiest day of his life. I didn't know how to tell him I didn't want to go, so two days before I was due to leave, I went into town and signed up for Starfleet. 
JAKE: What did your dad do? 
O'BRIEN: Oh, he was furious. But once he calmed down a little, he saw how much I wanted to join. Nowadays, when I go home, he introduces me as 'my son, Senior Chief Specialist Miles Edward O'Brien'. The point is, you've got to live your own life. 
JAKE: I don't want to disappoint my dad. 
O'BRIEN: Your dad's not a bad guy. He'll come round. Just give him some time. 
[Promenade]
(Coming out of the shrine) 
BAREIL: So, what did you think? 
KIRA: Of your speech? I liked everything about it, except the content. 
BAREIL: You disagree with my interpretation of the Eighth Prophecy? 
KIRA: Disagree is a bit of an understatement. Passionately disagree is more like it. The way you have of taking a prophecy and showing that it can mean exactly the opposite of the accepted interpretation is 
BAREIL: It's brilliant. Insightful. 
KIRA: Infuriating. 
BAREIL: Maybe we should talk about something else. 
KIRA: Like what? 
BAREIL: The Ilvian katterpod crop maybe? Or the new nature preserve in Hedrikspool Province? No? Maybe the standings in the springball championship. 
KIRA: You follow springball? 
BAREIL: Religiously, if you'll pardon the expression. I even used to play a little. 
KIRA: Me, too. I had Chief O'Brien design a springball holosuite programme. 
BAREIL: Really? Let's go. 
KIRA: You want to play springball? 
BAREIL: Why not? Well, unless you have a more pressing engagement? 
KIRA: Not that I can think of. 
BAREIL: Good. I could use the practice. 
[Protector's office]
(Odo is conducting interviews) 
ODO: From what I understand, you helped found this colony. 
RURIGAN: That's right. I'm the oldest one left. 
ODO: This colony must be very important to you. You helped found it, you raised a family here. 
RURIGAN: I'm very proud of what we've accomplished. 
ODO: Then explain something to me. This colony's undergoing a serious crisis. Your daughter is among the missing, yet you hardly seem concerned. 
RURIGAN: There's nothing I can do to change things. I wish there was. Now is there anything else, or can I go? 
ODO: Are you sure you're all right? 
RURIGAN: Why wouldn't I be? 
ODO: You seem to be in a great deal of pain. 
RURIGAN: Why do you say that? 
ODO: I can see it in your eyes. Perhaps you'd like to sit here for a moment and rest. 
RURIGAN: Well, it wouldn't do much good. You see, I'm dying. 
ODO: I'm sorry. 
RURIGAN: I've had a good life. No regrets. I wish I could see my daughter once again. Now, if there are no more questions? 
ODO: Actually, there is one thing I've been wondering. How come no one ever leaves the village? I haven't met anyone yet who's ever been outside this valley. Any idea why? 
RURIGAN: I suppose it's because people around here don't like to travel. After all, there's no place to go. 
ODO: How can you be so sure? Have you ever left the valley? 
RURIGAN: Now that you mention it, no. 
ODO: When I asked Colyus if he searched outside the valley for the missing people, he looked surprised, as if he'd never thought of it before. I find that very peculiar. Where I come from, we would have searched the entire countryside. 
RURIGAN: Yes, I suppose Colyus thought there was no point to it. But I guarantee you, there are no missing people out there. 
ODO: You're sure of that. 
RURIGAN: Absolutely. 
[Hillside]
TAYA: And then the great Minra said to the evil changeling, 'maybe you can turn into a mountain, or a ghergher beast, or a tornado, but those are big things and big things are easy. I bet you can't turn into something small, like a loaf of greenbread.' And so the changeling said 'Yes I can.' and he did, and do you know what happened? 
ODO: The great Minra gobbled him up. 
TAYA: How'd you know that? 
ODO: The changeling in your story wasn't very smart. 
TAYA: Could you turn into a loaf of greenbread? 
ODO: I suppose I could. 
TAYA: Show me. 
ODO: And let you gobble me up? I don't think so. 
TAYA: You see that tree. Sometimes we go there to play. That's the farthest I've ever been from the village. 
ODO: Wait here. 
TAYA: But I want to come see too. 
ODO: Please, do as I say. Lieutenant, would you come with me? 
DAX: I'm still not reading other lifeforms, and no indications of any power source. 
(Then the alien tricorder disappears from her hand) 
DAX: Did you see that? It just vanished. It happened just as we passed those bushes. 
(Taya is coming down the slope) 
DAX: Taya. 
ODO: Taya, don't come any closer. 
TAYA: But I brought you some harrid berries. 
(As Taya holds out her hand, it disappears, and reappears as she draws it back) 
[Village]
(Dax is getting into the device's controls.) 
COLYUS: Odo says you know what happened to the missing villagers. 
DAX: I think I do. It's a little complicated to explain. It'd probably be easier if I showed you. May I have your cloak? 
COLYUS: My cloak? 
DAX: Please. 
COLYUS: Well. 
DAX: Thank you. 
(She puts it on the ledge around the device) 
DAX: Now stand back. 
COLYUS: I'm waiting. 
DAX This may take a minute. I don't want to make a mistake. 
(The cloak disappears) 
COLYUS: That was my favourite cloak. 
ODO: Please, stay where you are. 
(And it's back again) 
COLYUS: Are you saying somebody used our reactor to transport the victims away? 
DAX: No. It's not a transporter. It's a holographic projector. It creates an omicron particle field and then manipulates the field to form physical objects like your cloak. 
COLYUS: What does this have to do with the missing people? 
DAX: The people are made up of omicron particles too. 
COLYUS: You mean they're holograms? 
DAX: I'm afraid so. You see, the component that controls the particle field, it's breaking down, and that's why people are disappearing. 
COLYUS: That's ridiculous. Some of the victims were my friends. One of them is my nephew. 
DAX: If I'm right, everyone and everything in this village is a holographic projection. 
COLYUS: And I thought I was desperate to find an answer. 
ODO: Listen to me, Colyus. I know this is difficult to accept. 
COLYUS: It's going to take a whole lot more than a vanishing cloak to make me believe that I'm some kind of hologram. 
ODO: I'd be sceptical too if I were you, but we have further proof. 
COLYUS: What kind of proof? 
DAX: The holographic field ends just outside this valley, and earlier today Taya tried to reach past the edge and her arm disappeared. 
COLYUS: Is she all right? 
ODO: She's fine. Her arm rematerialised as soon as she pulled it back inside. 
COLYUS: Where exactly did this happen? 
DAX: We could show you, if you'd like. 
COLYUS: I think you'd better. 
[Kira's quarters]
KIRA: I'm sorry. 
BAREIL: Don't apologise. I should have seen it coming. Where did you learn to play like that? 
KIRA: My brothers and I used to play at the Singha refugee camp. There wasn't much else to do. 
BAREIL: Yeah, I was at Relliketh. And now here we are. That was delicious. 
KIRA: Thank the replicators. 
BAREIL: Here, let me help. 
KIRA: That's not necessary. Your shoulder 
BAREIL: Never felt better. 
KIRA: Maybe I could use some help after all. 
(A kiss) 
KIRA: I'll have to remember to thank Prylar Rhit for inviting you here. 
BAREIL: You'd better tell him soon. Prylar Rhit is going to be returning to Bajor. It appears he fancies himself something of a dabo player. 
KIRA: Really? 
BAREIL: He's run up a sizable gambling debt. It's caused quite a scandal in the Vedek Assembly. 
KIRA: Let me get this straight. The man who invited you to the station owes money to Quark? 
BAREIL: Who? 
KIRA: The little troll who runs the dabo tables. I have to go. 
BAREIL: Why? 
KIRA: I need to talk to Prylar Rhit. I think I know the real reason he invited you here. 
[Village]
(It's a rowdy village meeting) 
COLYUS: People, please. Please! Quiet! Quiet! Calm down! Quiet! Calm down, everybody. We have to make a decision here. 
MERRUK: Colyus, you should be out looking for my wife and all the others who are missing. 
FEMALE: Not wasting time listening to these strangers and their lies. 
COLYUS: You all witnessed what happened when they brought us to the edge of the field. Merruk, we both saw your hand disappear. 
MERRUK: It could've been a trick. 
DAX: It wasn't a trick. 
FEMALE: Then how come we've never learned about this before. 
ODO: Because none of you ever tried to leave the valley. 
COLYUS: It's possible we were programmed not to leave so that we wouldn't learn the truth. Now, we have to shut down the system. If we don't fix it soon, the whole village will disappear. Dax, you said if you can fix the machine, you might be able to bring back the missing people. 
DAX: We hope so. 
RURIGAN: What if you turn off the projector and you can't get it back on? 
DAX: Then this village will cease to exist. The system's only a few months away from complete failure anyway. At least this way we have a chance to save you. 
TAYA: Grandfather, please, let her try. 
MERRUK: What do you think? 
RURIGAN: Well, we can't go on like this. I guess we should let her shut it down. 
COLYUS: Are there any objections? Then it's settled. 
TAYA: I can't wait to see my mother. 
(Taya runs over to Odo.) 
TAYA: Your face isn't so scary, once you get used to it. 
ODO: Thank you, Taya. 
DAX: All right, here we go. 
(The village, people and buildings, disappears except for) 
DAX: Odo. 
RURIGAN: Don't look so surprised. I'm as real as you are. 
(After the adverts) 
RURIGAN: I was happy living on Yadera Prime, that is, until the Dominion took over and changed our whole way of life. I realised one morning that I didn't really belong there anymore. So I came here, and I used a holo-generator to recreate all the things that I'd lost. I've lived here in my village for nearly thirty years. I've watched its people marry, have children, grow old. And sometimes I even forgot that they were holograms. But it's over. It's over. And I would appreciate it if you'd take me back to Yadera Prime. 
ODO: But what about the villagers? What about your granddaughter? 
RURIGAN: She's not real. 
ODO: Technically, I suppose you're right. Maybe by our definition, Taya's not real. Her memories are stored in a computer. Her body is made up of omicron particles. But who's to say that our definition of life is the only valid one. I'm sure if you asked her, she'd say she was real. She thinks, she feels. 
RURIGAN: She only seems to. It's all an illusion. An illusion that I created. 
ODO: You said you created the village thirty years ago. Taya's only ten. 
RURIGAN: I designed the programme so the villagers could have children if they wanted to. 
DAX: Then Taya's personality is a combination of her parent's personalities. 
ODO: Just like a real child. You had nothing to do with it. 
RURIGAN: But she's still a hologram. 
ODO: Maybe, but I saw the way you held her hand when she was sad. I saw the way you tried to comfort her when she was frightened. 
RURIGAN: I didn't want her to get hurt. 
ODO: If she's not real, what does it matter? 
RURIGAN: It matters. It matters to me. 
ODO: Why should it matter to you if a hologram cries? 
RURIGAN: Because I love her. 
DAX: And she loves you. 
ODO: Don't you see? She's real to you, and she's real to me too. They're all real. And you can't turn your back on them now. 
[Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: Jake, how was work? 
JAKE: Okay. It's kind of fun working with Chief O'Brien. But it would be better if I knew what I was doing. 
SISKO: You'll get there. 
JAKE: I guess so. 
SISKO: I'm glad you decided to stick with it. 
JAKE: Yeah. Dad, I don't want to join Starfleet. 
SISKO: Since when? 
JAKE: Since forever. Starfleet is too much like you. I need to find what's me. Does that make any sense? 
SISKO: Perfect sense. 
JAKE: It does? 
SISKO: It's your life, Jake. You have to choose your own way. There is only one thing I want from you. Find something you love, then do it the best you can. 
JAKE: I'll try. 
SISKO: Good. Then you'll make the old man proud. 
JAKE: I'd better go study. I'm still trying to figure out those isolinear rods. 
[Quark's cafe]
KIRA: Hello, Quark. 
QUARK: Major. To what do I owe this unexpected pleasure. 
KIRA: Just thought I'd let you know. We caught your cousin trying to slip back onto the station. and guess what we confiscated from him? Bone-carvings stolen from a museum on Cardassia Five. 
QUARK: I always knew Kono was no good. 
KIRA: I only wish we could have caught the two of you together. 
QUARK: Life is full of disappointments. 
KIRA: By the way, Prylar Rhit tells me you encouraged him to invite Bareil onto the station. 
QUARK: Is that a crime? 
KIRA: Not at all. I just wanted to thank you. I found him very diverting. 
(Kira and Bareil walk off together along the upper promenade) 
QUARK: Not diverting enough. 
[Village square]
(Or rather, where it should be) 
DAX: All right, nothing to do now but reactivate the system and see what happens. 
RURIGAN: Wait. Lieutenant, I'd like to ask you a favour. If it works, please don't tell any of the others that I'm not like them. I don't want to be treated any differently than before. 
ODO: Of course. 
(Rurigan goes back to where he was originally standing, Dax powers the device up and everyone and everything reappears.) 
TAYA: Mother? Mother? Mother! 
(Joyful reunions going on all around.) 
COLYUS: Well, you did it. 
DAX: We upgraded the system's memory core and realigned the field generators. I don't think you'll have to worry about anyone disappearing now. 
COLYUS: We just have to get used to the fact that we're holograms. 
RURIGAN: We're alive and we have our families back. That's the only thing that counts. 
COLYUS: I wonder who created all this? 
ODO: Whoever it was did a fine job. 
COLYUS: They did, didn't they. Well. it was good working with you, Odo. Next time you're on this side of the galaxy I hope you come by and see us. 
ODO: I would like that. 
COLYUS: We don't get that many visitors. 
TAYA: Odo, my mother's back. 
ODO: I'm glad. 
TAYA: You're leaving. 
ODO: I'm afraid so. 
TAYA: I'll miss you. 
ODO: I'll miss you, too. 
TAYA: Thank you for bringing my mother back. I hope you find your parents, too. 
ODO: Thank you, Taya. So do I. 
(Odo walks over to where Dax is waiting, then turns) 
ODO: Taya. 
(Odo briefly turns into a spinning top for her) 
DAX: Computer, two to beam up. 

