Episode Number: 443
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Crossover
Crossover
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 15 May, 1994
Medical log, supplemental. Major Kira and I are returning home after opening the hospital on New Bajor, the first Bajoran colony in the Gamma Quadrant. 
[Runabout]
KIRA: Could you take it for a while? 
BASHIR: Sure. Do you mind if I listen to some music? 
KIRA: Actually, I do. I was hoping to meditate for a few minutes. 
BASHIR: Of course. I didn't know you meditate. 
KIRA: Every day. 
BASHIR: I had the opportunity to study meditation with Isam Helewa when I was in college. A remarkable fellow. He sort of took me under his wing. I can't tell you how much I learned from him. The man was a master at rhythmic breathing. 
KIRA: You'll have to give me a few tips some time. 
BASHIR: Gladly. Oh, and I'd be more than interested in learning any Bajoran meditation techniques you'd like to show me. 
KIRA: We just usually like to sit quietly. 
(Bashir breathes in through his nose then out in a series of loud ha!s.) 
KIRA: What are you doing? 
BASHIR: Bellows breath. It's a series of quick intakes followed by one long intake of air through the nose. Hold, release. Increases the energy flow. It's quite simple. Let me show you. 
KIRA: How about some music? 
BASHIR: What's your pleasure? 
KIRA: I'm afraid my musical knowledge is limited to Bajoran composers. 
BASHIR: Computer, play us a little something by Tor Jolan. 
KIRA: You know Tor's work? 
BASHIR: I've made it a point to listen to Bajoran music ever since I arrived. 
KIRA: Really. 
BASHIR: Tor strikes me as the best of the lot, really. Slightly derivative of the Boldaric masters of the last century but pleasantly diverting. This is nice. I'm glad we're finally doing this. 
KIRA: What? 
BASHIR: Talking to one another. Finding common interests. Burying the hatchet. 
KIRA: Hatchet? 
BASHIR: A human expression. It means that we're finally putting past conflicts behind us. 
KIRA: Making way for brand new ones. 
BASHIR: Right. You know, Nerys. May I call you Nerys? 
KIRA: Sure. 
BASHIR: Even when we weren't getting along, I've always felt you were one of the most interesting women I'd ever met. I'm very serious. 
KIRA: Thank you. Doctor. 
BASHIR: Julian. Go on, say it. Julian. 
KIRA: Julian. 
BASHIR: It was hard for Chief O'Brien as well at first. We had our problems ourselves, but now we're like this. 
KIRA: One minute to the wormhole. Stand by to drop to impulse. 
BASHIR: Would you like to have dinner sometime? 
KIRA: I think you'd better stick with Dax. 
BASHIR: I'm sorry? Oh, you thought that I was trying to? No, no, no. 
KIRA: My mistake. 
BASHIR: But if I thought 
KIRA: Forget it. 
BASHIR: Right. 
KIRA: Take us out of warp. (Judder) What's wrong? 
BASHIR: The warp field's not fully collapsed. I'm showing a plasma injector leak. 
KIRA: Injector controllers are locked. I'm trying to compensate. 
(WHOOSH. It's a rough ride in the wormhole) 
KIRA: Injectors opening. Velocity falling. 
(There's a big flash.);
BASHIR: What was that? 
KIRA: Initiating emergency stabilisation control. 
(Another flash as everything calms down.) 
BASHIR: Are you all right? 
KIRA: A little dizzy. 
BASHIR: Me too. I guess we're lucky to be in one piece. 
(WHOOSH) 
KIRA: We'd better get O'Brien to take a look. What the hell? 
(DS9 isn't there) 
BASHIR: Where's the station? What happened to the station? 
KIRA: I have it on long range sensors. It's orbiting Bajor? 
BASHIR: Major, vessel approaching on an intercept course dead ahead. 
(A bird of Prey arrives and two armed Klingons beam in) 
KIRA: What is this? 
KLINGON: I'm sorry, ma'am. We were not informed you had left the station. 
KIRA: Who are you? 
KLINGON: (backing away and bowing) We were on standard patrol when your vessel seemed to appear out of nowhere. If you will allow us to withdraw, we will escort you back to the station. 
(The Klingons beam out) 
[Corridor]
KLINGON: I was as close to her as I am to you. She cannot be an imposter. 
GARAK: (in Cardassian uniform) But she is. 
(Bashir and Kira enter through the airlock.) 
KIRA: What is going on here? 
BASHIR: Garak? 
GARAK: Yes. My name is Garak. 
INTENDANT: The question is who are you? 
(Kira stares at her leather-clad double as we go to the opening titles) 
BASHIR: This may seem like an odd question, but could you tell us where we are? 
GARAK: This is the Terok Nor station, the centre of authority for the Bajoran sector. 
BASHIR: Centre of authority. Whose authority? 
GARAK: The Alliance, of course. 
KIRA: Something is very wrong here. I think we took a wrong turn in the wormhole. 
GARAK: Wormhole? 
KIRA: The wormhole to the Gamma. It's very difficult to explain. I think it would be best if we just to got back to our ship and 
INTENDANT: No. I don't think so. 
BASHIR: Now wait a minute. 
GARAK: Don't take that tone with me, Terran. 
BASHIR: Terran? 
INTENDANT: If you are whom I suspect you are, I'm afraid I can't run the risk of letting you go. Take that one below. Put him to work. Tell the supervisor to keep an eye on him. He won't know the rules. 
(A Klingon hauls Bashir away while Garak takes Kira.) 
[Promenade]
(This is closer to the station under occupation, with a slave work force under Cardassian and Klingon military rule) 
TELOK: Intendant! 
INTENDANT: What is it you need, Telok? 
TELOK: (a Klingon) This Terran was caught trying to stow away on one of the freighters leaving the station. 
INTENDANT: What is your designation. 
HUMAN: Zero four one three theta. 
INTENDANT: Theta. 
HUMAN: Yes, ma'am. 
INTENDANT: You worked so hard to earn your Theta designation, to earn our trust. Why do you throw it away like this? Reassign him to Lambda. Send him to the mines. 
GARAK: The mines? But he should die for this. We should make an example of him. 
INTENDANT: You have made a career out of setting examples, Garak. I think you enjoy it too much. 
GARAK: He could not have gotten on board that ship without help. This is the third incident in a month. At least allow me to interrogate him. 
INTENDANT: Fine. Interrogate him. But if he dies under your interrogation I will make you my example. Is that clear? 
GARAK: Very, Intendant. 
[Ore Processing]
O'BRIEN: I'm telling you. If you don't upgrade the thorium containment cells, there's going to be an accident and I'm not going to be responsible for the consequences. 
KLINGON 2: Another extra worker for you. A Terran who doesn't know the rules. 
ODO: Well, we'll see to it that he learns them. What's your designation? 
BASHIR: Bashir. Julian. 
ODO: Is that a joke? 
BASHIR: I don't know. Is it? 
(Odo slaps him.) 
ODO: No joking. That's my Rule of Obedience number fourteen. Now, what's your designation? 
BASHIR: I don't have a designation. 
ODO: I don't have a designation, sir. 
BASHIR: Another Rule of Obedience? 
(Odo slaps him again.) 
ODO: I don't have a designation, sir. 
BASHIR: I don't have a designation, sir. 
ODO: Now why is that? 
BASHIR: I don't know. And frankly I don't even know what I'm doing here. 
ODO: You're here to process ore. Have you ever done that before? 
BASHIR: No, I haven't. 
ODO: Have you ever worked in the mines? 
BASHIR: No. 
ODO: Then what have you done? 
BASHIR: I've been practicing medicine. 
(Odo slaps him again.) 
ODO: Did you forget the Rule of Obedience number fourteen? 
BASHIR: It's not a joke. I'm a doctor. 
ODO: Well, Doctor, don't forget to scrub before you operate. 
(Bashir sees O'Brien.) 
[Intendant's office]
INTENDANT: Sit down. You are me, aren't you. 
KIRA: I am Kira Nerys. 
INTENDANT: That makes two of us. Where you come from, things are very much like this, aren't they? There's a station, a Bajor, Cardassians, Terrans, Klingons. 
KIRA: The players are the same, but everyone seems to be playing different parts. 
INTENDANT: You didn't seem to recognise the Alliance. 
KIRA: No. 
INTENDANT: Perhaps you'd recognise the name Kirk. 
KIRA: I'm sorry, I don't. 
INTENDANT: Interesting. On my side, Kirk is one the most famous names in our history. 
Almost a century ago, a Terran starship Captain named James Kirk accidentally exchanged places with his counterpart from your side due to a transporter accident
. Our Terrans were barbarians then, but their Empire was strong. While your Kirk was on this side, he met a Vulcan named Spock and somehow had a profound influence on him. Afterwards, Spock rose to Commander in Chief of the Empire by preaching reforms, disarmament, peace. It was quite a remarkable turnabout for his people. Unfortunately for them, when Spock had completed all these reforms, his empire was no longer in any position to defend itself against us. 
KIRA: Us? 
INTENDANT: The Alliance. The historic coming together of the Klingons and the Cardassians. 
KIRA: And Bajor is part of this Alliance? 
INTENDANT: We'd been under Terran occupation for decades. When we were freed, we petitioned for entry and were accepted. We have become quite an influential power within the Alliance. Is it similar at all on your side? 
KIRA: No. My Bajor is not so fortunate. 
INTENDANT: I'd be very interested to hear more about it. 
KIRA: I can't stay here. You must see that. 
INTENDANT: Well, you see, that's part of the problem. I don't know how to send you back. But, more than that, there is a certain protocol I'm supposed to follow. 
KIRA: I'm not sure what you mean. 
INTENDANT: After the first crossover, we were afraid that others might come to interfere in our affairs. It was decided then that if it ever happened again, we would promptly dispose of anyone who appeared from your side. 
KIRA: I see. 
INTENDANT: Unlike my First Officer, Mister Garak, I have no taste for violence. I regret using it even when it seems necessary. 
KIRA: I know exactly what you mean. 
INTENDANT: You do, don't you? 
KIRA: I know you don't want to kill me and you're searching for a good reason not to. 
INTENDANT: Got any ideas? 
KIRA: My side needs what you have. A strong Bajor. If you knew the struggles we've been through to rebuild our world. Who's to say you won't influence us this time? 
INTENDANT: Me? 
KIRA: My side once changed the course of your history. Well, maybe this time your side can change mine. Maybe you can teach me what I need to become the leader of Bajor as you have. 
INTENDANT: That appeals to me. 
KIRA: If I can find a way back. 
INTENDANT: But I will have to kill your friend. 
KIRA: No. Don't. If you knew him. He's an arrogant Terran who's lived a privileged life on my side. Let him see how the other half lives. 
INTENDANT: No, it's too dangerous. The Cardassians and the Klingons would never allow it. 
KIRA: Are you the leader of this sector or not? 
INTENDANT: You know how to manipulate me. 
KIRA: I know how I'd feel in your place. I wouldn't give a damn what the Cardassians or the Klingons thought. 
INTENDANT: You're right. I don't. 
(A Cardassian woman enters) 
INTENDANT: Find this attractive young woman some quarters. Kira Nerys, I'll call for you later. 
[Ore Processing]
(Bashir is helping push a truck full of ore when Kira enters.) 
ODO: The Intendant informed me that you'd be inspecting the facilities. If there is anything I can explain? 
KIRA: No, I've worked in ore processing myself. Is my Terran friend behaving himself? 
ODO: They all behave themselves when I'm in charge. 
KIRA: Good. Good. If you don't mind, I'll speak with him. 
(Kira goes over to Bashir before Odo can object) 
KIRA: (sotto) Are you all right? 
BASHIR: Learning a new trade. Do you have any idea what happened? 
KIRA: Have you ever hear of a Starfleet Captain named James Kirk? 
BASHIR: Kirk? Of course. The transporter accident. Read about it at the Academy. So that's where we are. 
KIRA: That's where we are. 
BASHIR: Is there another me here? 
KIRA: Not on this station. I haven't found Dax or Sisko. 
BASHIR: O'Brien's been tinkering around with the machines. Major, if Kirk got here using a transporter, do you think we can get back the same way? 
KIRA: I don't know anything about transporters, do you? 
BASHIR: No one knows more about transporters than Chief O'Brien. 
KIRA: Our Chief O'Brien. Who knows about theirs? 
BASHIR: It's worth a shot. 
KIRA: Talk to him. I'll try to see if I can find anyone else who might be willing to help. 
[Quark's]
(Less garishly dressed, more harassed but otherwise the same Ferengi bartender. Kira has a female Klingon bodyguard.) 
QUARK: You certainly are the splitting image of the Intendant, just as they said. 
KIRA: Hello, Quark. 
QUARK: You know my name. 
KIRA: Quark runs a bar on my side too. 
QUARK: Really? I hope I'm doing decent business. Got to be better than here. The Alliance taxes are killing me. What can I get you? The Intendant likes a hot jumja tea this time of day. 
KIRA: Well, I'm not her, but that does sound good. 
QUARK: Coming up. So, are we close friends on your side? 
KIRA: Yeah. As a matter of fact, we are. On my side, Quark does me a lot of favours. 
QUARK: Favours? 
KIRA: The Quark I know, well, he just has the ability to get things done when no one else can. You know what I mean? Sometimes he even gets things done behind the backs of the security people. 
QUARK: What kind of favours do you ask him for? 
KIRA: Oh, all sorts of favours, like getting me things I need. 
QUARK: Such as? 
KIRA: Well, for instance, a transporter for a few hours. 
QUARK: Didn't I hear somewhere that a transporter was involved in the first crossover? 
KIRA: That's right. 
QUARK: Do you have a way back to your side, Major? Under the right circumstances, I might be willing to help you get access to a transporter. 
KIRA: Look, Quark, I don't have a strip of gold-pressed latinum so don't even think about it. 
QUARK: Gold-pressed what? 
KIRA: What is it you want? 
QUARK: The ability to send others across to your side. 
KIRA: Others? What others? 
QUARK: That's not important. 
KIRA: Look, I can't open a revolving door to 
GARAK: Quark! 
QUARK: Mister Garak, what can I get you today? Drinks are always on the house for you. 
GARAK: You must come with us. 
QUARK: Is there a problem? 
GARAK: Yes. A slight problem. You've been helping Terrans escape from the station. 
QUARK: Me? I'm a simple barkeep, and a coward. I assure you I don't stick my neck out for anyone. 
GARAK: That's not what the Terran we caught this morning told us during his interrogation. 
QUARK: This is all a misunderstanding. I assure you 
(Quark grabs a rifle but Garak knocks it out of his hands, deflecting the shot. Quark tries to run and is caught by the Klingons and hauled away.) 
GARAK: I shall miss him. He always let me win at dabo. 
(A band of mercenaries enter) 
SISKO: Bartender! 
GARAK: He's just been arrested. 
(Garak leaves) 
SISKO: Arrested? What a damned shame. (jumps over the bar) Who wants a drink on the house? 
[Ore Processing]
(Meal and rest time. Bashir gives away his plate of mush.) 
BASHIR: Here. 
(He goes to where work is being done on a machine.) 
BASHIR: Miles O'Brien. I know you on my side. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah? 
BASHIR: Actually, we're best friends. 
O'BRIEN: You and me? 
BASHIR: That's right. 
O'BRIEN: What am I, some kind of doctor too? 
BASHIR: No, you're Chief of Operations of this station. 
O'BRIEN: Me? Go on. 
BASHIR: It's true. 
O'BRIEN: Chief of operations. 
BASHIR: Looks like you know your way around machines. 
O'BRIEN: I know some things. What else is he like, this Chief of Operations. 
BASHIR: He's married, he has a five year old daughter, he's one of the most decent men I know. We've fought our way out of a few scrapes together. I admire him a great deal. 
O'BRIEN: Sounds like he got the lucky draw between me and him. 
BASHIR: Have you ever done much work on transporters? 
O'BRIEN: Me? Yeah, some. Why? 
BASHIR: The Chief O'Brien I know is an expert in transporter technology. 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't call myself an expert, but I know as much as any Terran. 
BASHIR: I hope that'll be enough 
O'BRIEN: Enough for what? 
BASHIR: We think a that transporter will help us get back to our side. 
O'BRIEN: What? You're filling me up with this stuff just to get me to help you, is that it? 
BASHIR: No, everything I've told you is the truth. 
O'BRIEN: I don't know you. I'm not your friend. I'm not your friend. 
(Odo enters) 
ODO: Meal break is over. You're wanted in the bar. 
O'BRIEN: Look, if I don't finish here 
ODO: You're wanted in the bar by Mister Sisko. 
[Quark's]
SISKO: Yes. Look at this. Do you believe it? She called me all the way from the Fowla System to see you. Not only do you look like her, you have the same temper. 
KIRA: You and your friends don't seem like the other Terrans I've seen here. 
SISKO: The Intendant has honoured me with a ship and a crew. I honour her by collecting duties, of a sort, from vessels who pass in this direction. 
KIRA: And why do you deserve this special treatment? 
SISKO: I suppose because I amuse her and she's not easily amused. And it seems that you amuse her too. 
(Sisko is moving in for a kiss when) 
O'BRIEN: You wanted to see me, Mister Sisko? 
SISKO: Hello, Smiley, how are you? 
O'BRIEN: It's Miles, Mister Sisko. 
SISKO: I don't like Miles. That's why I named you Smiley. Are they treating you okay, Smiley? 
O'BRIEN: Just fine. What do you need? 
SISKO: You don't like me, do you, Smiley? 
O'BRIEN: Not really, Mister Sisko. 
SISKO: And you're not afraid to show it, are you? I guess that's why I like you so much. My impulse driver coil isn't operational. Take care of it. 
O'BRIEN: I've got a serious problem in ore processing that's got to be fixed or 
SISKO: I don't care what's going on in ore processing. Fix my engine. 
(O'Brien leaves) 
INTENDANT [OC]: Kira to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
INTENDANT [OC]: I'd like to discuss your recent mission. Would you please report to my quarters? 
[Intendant's quarters]
(Kira enters to see the Intendant taking a milk and rose petal bath while Sisko lounges on a chaise-longue.) 
INTENDANT: There she is. Have you met my friend Benjamin Sisko, my dear? Tell us, is there another one of him on your side? 
KIRA: Yes, there is. 
INTENDANT: Is he as loyal and true as mine? 
KIRA: He's a good man. 
INTENDANT: I'm sorry he didn't come with you. Wouldn't that have been something, Benjamin? Two of you by my side. 
SISKO: I need to check my ship. 
INTENDANT: Benjamin! Did I hurt your feelings? 
SISKO: I never had any to hurt, Intendant. 
(Sisko leaves) 
INTENDANT: Now, what is this I hear about you wanting a transporter? 
(She gets out of her bath) 
INTENDANT: Quark mentioned something about it during his interrogation. 
KIRA: I did ask him about a transporter, that's true. 
INTENDANT: But why? 
KIRA: You know I'm looking for a way back. A transporter was responsible for the first crossover. 
INTENDANT: And if you had come to me, I would have told you all transporters were redesigned afterwards to make sure the same thing would never happen again. It won't work. So, why didn't you come to me? 
KIRA: You're very busy. 
INTENDANT: You don't trust me. 
KIRA: I guess I am a little afraid of you. 
INTENDANT: Then you fear yourself. I don't want your fear. I want your love. If you can't love me, who can? Don't be in such a hurry to go. I'm glad you're here. There is so much we can learn from one another. 
KLINGON [OC]: Intendant, Garak is here with the prisoner. 
INTENDANT: Send him in. 
(Quark is carried in and dropped on the floor.) 
GARAK: He's made a complete confession and implicated two others, who have been arrested. 
INTENDANT: Quark. I've always liked you, you know that. 
QUARK: I have nothing but respect for you, Intendant. I am so sorry. 
INTENDANT: You did it because you felt sorry for these Terrans. You hate to see them suffer just as I do. 
QUARK: Yes, Intendant. 
INTENDANT: But where would we be without them? Who would perform the labour for the Alliance? A quick death. Don't make him suffer any more. 
QUARK: No, Intendant, please. I made a mistake. Have mercy. Please. No. 
(Quark is hauled out) 
INTENDANT: I've planned a party for us tonight. What shall we wear? 
[Kira's quarters]
(Kira enters carrying a gown.) 
GARAK: Lovely. I do admire a well-tailored gown. 
KIRA: What are you doing in my quarters, Garak? 
GARAK: She's never going to let you leave, you know. Can't you tell? She's in love. 
KIRA: What are you talking about? 
GARAK In love with you, my dear. She's all a-twitter about you, can't talk about anyone else. You're the perfect gift for the girl who has everything. She's taken you into her heart like a Drathan puppy lig left on her doorstep. Who else could she share her deepest secrets with, tell her troubles to, trust with her life? 
KIRA: All you have to do is take a look at the guard outside to see how much she trusts me. 
GARAK: I arranged the guard. Oh, she trusts you. As much as she trusts anyone. So who better to betray her? 
KIRA: You're taking quite a risk coming to me like this. 
GARAK: True career advancement requires risk. Consider my offer carefully, my dear. She'll never let you go. I will. If you want to leave, you'll assist me. 
KIRA: How? 
GARAK: By taking her place. 
KIRA: What? 
GARAK: Tomorrow morning, she will be gone. 
KIRA: Gone? 
GARAK: She will be gone. Please, don't make me use some foolish euphemism. You will assume her place as Intendant and announce that your counterpart from the other side has returned to wherever she came from. In a few weeks, you will step down to embark on some spiritual journey, to explore your pagh or whatever, and I will take your place as Intendant. 
KIRA: What about my friend? 
GARAK: The good Doctor, yes. He'll be taken off the station and treated to as much hospitality as we Cardassians can offer until you resign, and then you can be happily reunited. Oh, but I've made arrangements with his supervisor that if you should decide to decline my offer, tomorrow it will be your doctor friend who will be gone. 
[Ore Processing]
KIRA: We've to get out of here tonight. 
BASHIR: Why? What's happened? 
KIRA: I don't have time to explain. Just watch your back. You're in danger. 
BASHIR: Why my back? What kind of danger? 
KIRA: We've got to find a way back to the runabout. 
BASHIR: And then where do we go? The Alliance controls the entire quadrant. 
KIRA: There's still a wormhole out there they don't know about. Now I'm not sure whether it'll get us back or not, all I know is we can't stay here any longer. 
(Odo appears, watching.) 
BASHIR: How are we supposed to get by their security? 
KIRA: I'm trying to find some help. 
BASHIR: I've heard Quark's helped some Terrans escape. 
KIRA: It's too late for Quark. Stay alert. If our chance comes, there won't be much warning. 
[Promenade]
KIRA: Sisko. 
SISKO: Tell her I'm busy. 
KIRA: I have something important to tell you. 
SISKO: I'm listening. 
KIRA: It's valuable information and I want something in exchange. 
SISKO: You've gone into business for yourself, have you? 
KIRA: All I want is to get off this station. I want my runabout back. 
SISKO: (laughing) And you expect me to help you? She'll have my head. Or something else. 
KIRA: Not if you save her life. 
SISKO: Her life? 
KIRA: Garak is planning to kill her. Tonight. 
SISKO: That's it? That's the valuable information? Garak has been trying to kill her since the day he got here. 
KIRA: He wants me to take her place. 
SISKO: Well, now, that's more creative than he usually gets. I wouldn't worry about it. 
KIRA: What kind of a man are you? 
SISKO: You're disturbing my nap. 
KIRA: The Benjamin Sisko I know would never sell his soul and allow himself to become a part of this tyranny against his own people. 
SISKO: Terrans don't have souls. We don't believe in them. 
KIRA: What do Terrans believe in? Raising their children to dig the ore out of the mines for the Alliance? I worked in mines too till I was old enough to start fighting for my freedom. 
SISKO: What do you care about Terran's freedom? 
KIRA: I care about freedom. What I don't understand is why you don't care. Why the only one on this station I have met who seemed to give a damn was a Ferengi toad named Quark. 
SISKO: You're looking in the wrong place for a hero, ma'am. I've made the best of a bad life for my crew. That's my contribution. 
KIRA: Yes, you charmed your way out of the mines but you and I both know you're no less a victim than anyone else here. 
[Quark's]
(Kira enters in the blue, bootlace strap low cut party gown) 
GARAK: My dear, how breathtaking you look tonight. I do hope you'll save a dance for me later this evening. 
TELOK: After four years as a personal guard for the House of Duras, I was ready to do anything to get out of there. You never knew if Lursa and B'Etor were going to do 
(His arm is jolted by one of Sisko's crewmen and his drink is spilled.) 
TELOK: Clumsy fool. (knock the human down) Stupid Terran pig! 
(But the Terran brandishes a sharp knife at Telok. Sisko shakes his head so the knife is put away again.) 
TELOK: What's wrong, Terran? Lost your nerve? Afraid to die today, eh? 
(Telok spits in his face. The Terran looks at Sisko who signals 'no'.) 
TELOK: Get out of my sight. 
(The Terran gets out, and Sisko goes to stare Telok in the eyes when the Intendant enters, identically dressed like Kira but with her head band on.) 
MUSICIAN: Intendant, what is your pleasure? 
INTENDANT: Play something bright. I'm in a happy mood. 
[Ore Processing]
(Bashir is exhausted when Odo kicks him in the back.) 
ODO: You're not accustomed to this workload, are you, Doctor? You have much to learn. It's a shame this is going to be your last night on the job. 
(Bang, hiss, alarm) 
ODO: Engineering, we have a thorium leak down here! Release the security locks! 
(The workers dash for the exit. Bashir gets a phaser off a guard and shoots Odo, who explodes in a messy splash.) 
[Corridor]
TELOK [OC]: Establish security fields on the levels above and below. Station guards at all turbolifts. 
(Bashir hides in an access tunnel) 
KLINGON: You men come with me. 
[Access tunnel junction]
(Bashir finds O'Brien working on a panel.) 
BASHIR: O'Brien? You've got to help me. 
O'BRIEN: I don't see you. You're not here. I'm just trying to seal this thorium leak. 
BASHIR: Look, I don't know my way around these conduits but you do. My O'Brien does. Just tell me where the runabout pads are. I know you, Miles O'Brien. Somewhere inside of you is a shred of decency. There has to be. 
O'BRIEN: I am a decent man. I just, I just. You don't understand. I can't help you. I can't. They'll kill me. 
BASHIR: You're already dead. I'm sorry you don't see that. The life inside every human being here, every Terran, died here a long time ago. 
(Bashir gets into another conduit.) 
O'BRIEN: That's not the right way. Just tell me one thing. Is there any room over there on your side for me? 
BASHIR: You want us to take you with us? 
O'BRIEN: I've no reason to stay here. 
BASHIR: Starfleet would probably have a big problem with that. To hell with them. Let's go. 
[Corridor]
(They get caught.) 
TELOK: Stop right there. 
[Quark's]
TELOK: Intendant. The new Terran killed the shape-shifter and O'Brien tried to help him escape. 
INTENDANT: This is my fault for listening to you, for keeping him alive in the first place. I know very little about where you come from but from what I've heard, I think your kind has a lot to learn. 
BASHIR: We've got a lot to learn? What a laugh. 
INTENDANT: Quiet. On this side, Terran workers do not speak to their superiors as you do. They certainly do not murder them. He was the only one of his kind, the man you killed. Do you realise that? He's irreplaceable. No one ran that operation as efficiently as he did. No one kept order among the workers as he did. This is my reward for treating you Terrans with the least bit of respect. Very well. I can learn from my mistakes. You want to set an example, Garak? Use him. Set an example for all Terrans. Let him die slowly in public view on the Promenade. Let his pleads for mercy echo through the corridors for all Terrans to hear. 
KIRA: Intendant. 
INTENDANT: Another word from you and you will die right beside him. And you, O'Brien, you tinkerer and putterer and fixer of broken things, you've been a perfect theta for years. What could have possibly gotten into you. What were you thinking? 
O'BRIEN: Do you want an answer, Intendant? 
INTENDANT: Yes! 
O'BRIEN: This man. This man is a doctor where he comes from. And there's an O'Brien there just like me, except he's some kind of high up Chief of Operations. They're Terrans. Can you believe that? Maybe it's a fairy tale he made up, but it made me start thinking how each of us might have turned out if history had been just a little different. I wanted him to take me with him because whatever it's like where he's from, it's got to be better than this. There's got to be something better than this. 
(Sisko has been listening carefully) 
INTENDANT: Not for you, Mister O'Brien. Oh, he's going to be taking you with him. Just not exactly where you thought he would be taking you. 
(Garak starts to take O'Brien and Bashir out, but Sisko stops him and holds a weapon on him.) 
SISKO: No. I don't think so. 
(The mercenaries take charge, and Kira takes her bodyguard's weapon.) 
INTENDANT: Have you lost your mind? 
SISKO: No. I didn't lose it, I just changed it. 
(Sisko and Co. leave, sealing the bar with a shot to the lock) 
[Corridor]
KIRA: She's never going to let you get away. She'll track you down no matter how long it takes. 
BASHIR: You may want to consider trying to follow us back to our side. 
SISKO: I've got the feeling I may not fit in very well over there. We'll stay one step ahead of the law, don't worry about us. Maybe we can stir up some things on this side. 
BASHIR: You're still welcome to come with us. 
O'BRIEN: I might have something to stay for now, if you have room on your ship for me, Mister Sisko. 
SISKO: I can always use a good tinkerer and putterer. You're with me, Smiley. 
(They get to an airlock.) 
KIRA: Good luck. Thank you. 
SISKO: Come on. 
[Runabout]
KIRA: Disengage the docking clamps. 
BASHIR: Confirmed. 
KIRA: Firing thrusters. 
BASHIR: Thrusters engaged. 
KIRA: Taking us straight to impulse. 
BASHIR: Impulse engines online. 
KIRA: Forty five seconds to wormhole. 
BASHIR: I'm still reading up a plasma injector leak from the warp core. 
KIRA: I'm just hoping that leak gets us back where we came from. I'm matching speeds and attitude with our last time through. 
BASHIR: Klingon cruiser approaching.
(It shoots at them) 
BASHIR: Shields are down to sixty percent. 
(Bang) 
BASHIR: Forty. 
KIRA: Ten seconds to the wormhole. 
(BOOM) 
BASHIR: We're hit! 
KIRA: Hold on! 
(And into the wormhole) 
[Ops]
SISKO: Anything? 
DAX: The search vessels picked up their warp signature traces. There was also an indication of a plasma leak. 
SISKO: But no wreckage. 
DAX: Nothing. 
O'BRIEN: Reading elevated neutrinos. Something's coming through the wormhole. I can't believe it. It's them! 
DAX: Benjamin, they're showing damage to their deflector grids. 
SISKO: Put them on the screen, Mister O'Brien. We've got ships out from here to New Bajor looking for you. Where have you been? 
KIRA [on viewscreen]: Through the looking glass, Commander. It's good to be back. 

