Episode Number: 410
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Move Along Home
Move Along Home
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 15 Mar, 1993
[Sisko's quarters]
JAKE: Dress uniform? 
SISKO: I haven't worn this in almost three years. I must've lost a little weight. Feels kind of baggy. 
JAKE: It looks great. Besides, baggy's quite fashionable on Bajor right now. Lemonade. 
SISKO: Since when are you interested in Bajoran fashions? 
JAKE: Well, a lot of Bajoran girls come to the station with their families. 
SISKO: Since when are you interested in Bajoran girls? 
JAKE: Dad. 
SISKO: Wasn't it just a few weeks ago that you were playing with model starships? 
JAKE: Try a few years ago. 
SISKO: You and I have got to have a talk, young man, about women. 
JAKE: That's okay. 
SISKO: I mean it. There are some things you have got to know. 
JAKE: I already know them, Dad. 
SISKO: Oh yeah? And who told you? 
JAKE: Nog. 
SISKO: Nog. So all you know about women you've heard from the Ferengi boy. 
JAKE: We were just talking. 
SISKO: Swell. Listen, I don't have time now, but obviously I have a lot of damage control to do with you on this subject. Let's set aside some time tomorrow. 
JAKE: Fine. 
SISKO: Okay. Tomorrow morning, first thing. 
JAKE: Fine. What's going on anyway? 
SISKO: A Vulcan ship has made contact with a new species called Wadi in the Gamma Quadrant three weeks ago. We're expecting a delegation from their planet. 
JAKE: Rolling out the red carpet, huh? 
SISKO: First contact is our most important mission, Jake. It has to be handled delicately. You might say it's sort of like a first date with a girl. You want to show a certain respect for 
KIRA [OC]: Ops to Sisko 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
[Ops]
KIRA: The Wadi ship has just come through the wormhole. We're sending them to docking bay four. 
SISKO [OC]: I'll meet you all there. 
[Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: Sisko out. Tomorrow morning. 
[Airlock corridor]
(Only the Doctor is not in Starfleet dress uniform. Bajorans don't have one.) 
BASHIR: I'm positive I packed my dress uniform. I can't understand it. 
DAX: You look fine, Julian. Relax. 
BASHIR: I mean, they are aliens, aren't they. I mean, they won't know our protocol. 
KIRA: It'll be fine. 
SISKO: Where's your uniform, Doctor? 
BASHIR: I can't seem to find it, sir. I mean, I'm certain I packed it. 
SISKO: Listen to me. This is no dress rehearsal, this is the real thing. Our first formal reception for a delegation from the Gamma Quadrant, and I want things to go right from this moment on. Clear? 
BASHIR: Yes. 
SISKO: Let's do it. 
(Enter the Wadi, tall humanoids with what look like tattoos on their faces) 
FALOW: I am Falow, Master Surchid of the Wadi. 
SISKO: Welcome in the name of Bajor and the United Federation of Planets. I am Commander Benjamin Sisko, and on behalf of my senior staff officers, Major Kira, Lieutenant Dax and Doctor Bashir 
FALOW: Yes, yes, yes. Now, where are the games? 
SISKO: Games? 
FALOW: We were told you had games. (an aide whispers) Quark's. Take us to Quark's. 
KIRA: Right this way. 
(Kira leads the Wadi away) 
SISKO: First contact is not what it used to be. 
[Quark's]
(The Wadi are watching the dabo wheel) 
QUARK: Do they have money? 
DAX: We don't know. We didn't ask. 
SISKO: That's not the point. 
QUARK: It may not be your point, but it's mine. 
SISKO: Damn it, Quark, this is a new lifeform from the Gamma Quadrant. I expect you to treat them with 
QUARK: Commander, I'm a host. A host is an ambassador of good will. The more good will that I can generate, the longer they'll stay, the greater my profits. I think we're talking the same language here. 
SISKO: Not quite. 
QUARK: Allow me to put your concerns to rest. (goes over to the Wadi) So, do you fellows do a lot of gambling where you come from? 
FALOW: We like games. 
QUARK: Doesn't everybody? Doesn't everybody? You know, those virgin territories in the Gamma Quadrant are ripe for dabo franchising. You and I might want to talk about an investment opportunity at some point. 
(Quark trails off under Sisko's glare) 
QUARK: So, have you figured out the essentials of the game yet? 
FALOW: I believe we have. 
QUARK: Give her a spin, One time, on the house. 
(The wheel comes to a stop) 
QUARK: Ah, two pinch showing. Too bad. Nothing ventured, nothing gained, I always say. What would you care to wager? 
(One of Falow's aides brings a box.) 
QUARK: Oh, what a handsome container. There's an old Ferengi expression. Good things come in small packages. (Falow opens the box) Sticks? 
FALOW: Klon peags. Highly sought in our culture. They have many different uses. 
QUARK: I'm sorry, but I have enough sticks right now. 
(Another aide brings Quark a bottle and glass) 
QUARK: What's this? 
FALOW: Alpha-currant nectar. It's priceless. 
(She pours Quark a drink, but his face says he wants to spit it out again) 
QUARK: One man's priceless is another man's worthless. 
SISKO: Quark. Take the juice. 
QUARK: Sorry, not interested. 
FALOW: Then, we really have nothing to wager, except this. 
(And pours out a pouch of gem stones. Quark summons a waiter.) 
QUARK: Get these folks some drinks 
(Later, the Wadi are still at the dabo wheel and most customers have gone home.) 
SISKO: McCoullough. 
QUARK: McCoullough? 
SISKO: Captain McCoullough. That's the name I've been trying to remember for the last six hours. 
GIRL: Dabo! 
QUARK: Good Lord, they've won again. 
SISKO: McCoullough's the one who wrote the revised First Contact procedures for Starfleet. 
QUARK: That right? 
SISKO: I wish he was here now instead of me. 
GIRL: Dabo! 
QUARK: No, they couldn't have doubled again. 
SISKO: With all due respect to the procedures and to McCoullough, I have had it. This is as far as duty takes me. Keep them happy. If they ever get tired of playing dabo, let me know. Good night. 
QUARK: What's good about it? (goes to the dabo wheel) Getting ready to call it a night? 
FALOW: We've only just started. 
(Falow displays his stash of winnings) 
QUARK: The girl's arm must be getting tired. All that spinning. 
FALOW: Replace her. 
QUARK: Very well. Broik, take the wheel. 
(Broik presses a hidden button) 
QUARK: Oh. One pinch showing. An unfortunate reversal. 
[Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: What are you still doing up? 
JAKE: Nog and I were setting up a reactive ion impeller for school. 
SISKO: Nog is older than you, Jake. He stays up later. He probably does things, things with girls for instance, you're not ready for yet. 
JAKE: Come on. We were just working on a school project. 
SISKO: You know what time you're supposed to go to bed. We never had any problems with it until Nog. 
JAKE: Dad, I'm fourteen. 
SISKO: I'm glad we agree on something. Go to bed. 
JAKE: Fine. So, how'd it go? 
SISKO: Great. Just great. I've done nothing for the past six hours but eat Ferengi lokar beans and watch people play childish games. 
[Quark's]
(Falow catches Broik cheating) 
QUARK: Broik, you disreputable swindler! I've put up with your cheating for the last time. 
FALOW: Sit. 
QUARK: Look, er, why don't we just call it even and no hard feelings. Or take another spin on the house. Or two or three. A free visit to a holosuite. Do you know what a holosuite is? Do you have sex on your world? Look, take it all back, all the gemstones, and I'll throw in a case of Andolian brandy to make your trip home a little more enjoyable. 
FALOW: You like our gemstones? You will have the opportunity to win more. A lot more. 
QUARK: I will? 
FALOW: In a new game. An honest game. 
(The dabo wheel is replaced by the Wadi game - an upside down pyramid of 'levels' which Falow places game pieces on.) 
QUARK: Very unusual. I don't think I know this game. What's it called? 
FALOW: Chula. 
QUARK: What are the rules? 
FALOW: These are your players. We'll start them on the second shap. 
QUARK: Second shap? Can't we start at the beginning? 
FALOW: Only children enter at the first shap. 
[Labyrinth]
(Sisko rolls over in bed and wakes up, in his uniform, on a triangular paved floor) 
SISKO: Sisko to Ops. Sisko to Security. Computer, freeze programme. End programme. Exit. 
(Sisko tries all of the doors. Only one opens, into a corridor. Sisko tries the doors there and Falow is behind the third one.) 
SISKO: You? 
FALOW: Shap two. Move along. Move along home. 
SISKO: Where is this place? Where have you brought me? 
FALOW: Move along home. 
(The door shuts) 
SISKO: Falow! 
(A man screams and Sisko runs towards it) 
SISKO: Doctor! 
BASHIR: Aaah! Oh. Oh, thank God. I thought I was having a nightmare. I couldn't wake up. 
(Kira enters) 
KIRA: You two. 
(Dax enters) 
DAX: What was all that yelling? 
BASHIR: Haven't you ever had to wake yourself up out of a bad dream? 
SISKO: This isn't a dream. We're guests of the Wadi. 
KIRA: What do they want? 
SISKO: I don't know yet. I just had a strange run-in with Falow. He said something about moving along home. 
DAX: Home? 
BASHIR: Perhaps we're being given some sort of behavioural test, like a laboratory rodent who must work his way out of a maze. 
KIRA: Behavioural test? Now wait a minute. 
DAX: There doesn't seem to be any immediate threat, Major. 
KIRA: Oh, no. I'm sure all you Starfleet explorers find this fascinating, but I'm a Bajoran administrator. This is not what I signed up for. 
SISKO: I don't find this fascinating either, Major, but I suggest we take Falow's advice and find our way home. 
DAX: Do the comm. badges still work? As long as we can maintain contact, it should be reasonably safe to split up and see if any of us can find a way out of here. 
SISKO: Use your tricorders for proximity checks every two minutes. And if all else fails, just yell again, Doctor. We'll find you. 
[Security office]
ODO: Mister Sisko, how can I help you? 
JAKE: Do you know where my Dad's gone? 
ODO: You can't find him? 
JAKE: Last night, he was making a big deal about us having a talk this morning. But when I got up he was gone. 
ODO: Have you checked his office? 
JAKE: The computer says he's not on the station. 
ODO: Why don't you go on to school while I track him down. 
JAKE: School's closed while Mrs O'Brien's back on Earth. Nog and I were going over to airlock three and watch the Bajoran transport passengers come on board 
ODO: You mean, to look at the girls. 
JAKE: No, we were just 
ODO: Go on. When I find out where your father went, I'll let you know. 
JAKE: Thanks, Odo. 
(Jake leaves) 
ODO: Computer, confirm that Commander Sisko is not on the station. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. 
ODO: What time did he log out? 
COMPUTER: That information is not on file. 
ODO: What ship did he leave on? 
COMPUTER: That information is not on file. 
[Ops]
PRIMMIN: Constable Odo. Good morning to you. 
ODO: Where's Major Kira? 
PRIMMIN: Didn't report for duty on time this morning. None of the senior officers did. 
ODO: And you don't find that odd? 
PRIMMIN: I heard that Wadi party went on all night. 
ODO: How long have you been a security officer, Lieutenant? 
PRIMMIN: Six years. Why? 
ODO: Lost many Commanders? 
PRIMMIN: Lost? 
ODO: Because you've lost one now. Sisko's off the station, missing. All of the senior officers may be missing. I want a sweep of this station, and if the others are missing too, I want to know the last time anybody saw them. I'm going to contact all ships that have departed since last night. Understood? 
PRIMMIN: Yes, Constable. 
ODO: And don't call me Constable. I'm Chief of Security. 
PRIMMIN: Yes, sir. 
[Quark's]
FALOW: Last wagers. The board is ready. 
QUARK: It is? 
FALOW: How much do you wish to risk on the second shap? 
QUARK: Is there a minimum wager? 
(Falow offer Quark three pyramid die, with colours on the chopped off points ) 
FALOW: Roll. 
QUARK: Roll? Roll? But you haven't even told me the rules yet. 
FALOW: You're required to learn as you play. Roll. 
(one yellow, two blue) 
FALOW: Chula! 
QUARK: Did I win? 
FALOW: Hardly. Your pieces will meet the Chandra. 
(He moves the game pieces to a corner) 
QUARK: The Chandra? What does that mean? Is it good or bad? 
FALOW: Neither. Both. 
QUARK: I don't understand. 
FALOW: Ah, but there is the key. Some will never understand while others will consider it mere child's play. 
(And Falow taps commands into the game console) 
[Labyrinth]
(Sisko is methodically checking doors in corridors when he hears a girl singing) 
CHANDRA [OC]: Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. 
SISKO: This is Sisko I've found something. 
(Kira joins him, then Dax and Bashir) 
CHANDRA: Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. 
[Chamber]
(The Wadi girl is playing alien hopscotch) 
CHANDRA: Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. 
(The door closes behind them) 
DAX: Hello. Can you tell us where we are? Is there a way to leave? 
BASHIR: Do you think we're supposed to do something? 
KIRA: Well, this is the first door that's opened for us. I want to know where it goes. 
(But Kira gets zapped by a forcefield while the girl is passes through it.) 
SISKO: Are you all right? 
KIRA: I'll be okay. 
DAX: Some kind of ionic field. 
SISKO: She's goes right through it. 
BASHIR: The panels on the floor. She steps on certain panels which must allow her to go through the field. 
DAX: If you can see, you'll come with me. 
BASHIR: Watch this. 
CHANDRA: Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. 
(Bashir does the steps but still bounces off the forcefield) 
BASHIR: But I did everything she did. 
DAX: No, Julian, you didn't. 
BASHIR: I followed her footsteps exactly. 
DAX: But you didn't say the rhyme. 
CHANDRA + DAX: Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. 
(Dax does the steps and gestures and gets through) 
DAX: Come on! Just say the rhyme. 
SISKO, BASHIR, KIRA: Allamaraine, count to four. Allamaraine, then three more. Allamaraine, if you can see. Allamaraine, you'll come with me. 
(The next door opens and they go through.) 
CHANDRA: Allamaraine. Third shap. 
[Quark's]
FALOW: Allamaraine! 
(Quark gets some gem stones) 
QUARK: I think I'm getting the hang of this. 
FALOW: Choose their path. 
QUARK: Path? 
FALOW: Short or long. 
QUARK: What's the difference? 
FALOW: The short path doubles the peril to your four players. It also doubles your winnings. 
QUARK: Double my winnings? Well, in that case 
FALOW: Choose carefully. If none of your players makes it home, you lose everything you've won. 
QUARK: Oh. I see why you find this game so interesting. 
FALOW: Do you? 
QUARK: Yes. You know I might have room for another gaming table or two on the second floor. We might negotiate a licensing agreement? Perhaps we could discuss 
ODO: Quark! 
QUARK: I'm busy. 
ODO: Yes. I can see. When was the last time you saw Sisko? 
QUARK: Last night when he went home to bed. 
ODO: Did he say anything to you about leaving the station? 
QUARK: Not a thing. 
FALOW: Choose their path. 
ODO: Quark. 
QUARK: Really, Odo you'll have to 
ODO: He's missing, and so are Kira, Dax and Bashir. Four officers have just disappeared. You're sure you have no idea? 
QUARK: Why would I know anything about. Four? Did you say four officers are missing? 
ODO: Yes. 
FALOW: Double their peril. Double your winnings. 
(Pennies roll down two mental slides and drop into place....) 
FALOW: Bet or leave. 
QUARK: Odo, how about taking my place? 
FALOW: Choose their path. 
QUARK: I'll take the safer path. 
FALOW: Roll. 
[Labyrinth]
KIRA: Rhymes and riddles and mazes. What's the logic behind all this? what do they want from us? 
BASHIR: Move along home. That's what the man told the Commander. 
DAX: A game. Home is often the destination in a game. 
KIRA: The Wadi do love games. 
DAX: Think of it. We've been given directions, clues, obstacles to overcome. 
(A door behind closes, the one ahead opens) 
SISKO: Pawns. 
(There is laughter ahead) 
[Chamber]
(It's a party, and includes some of the Wadi from Quark's) 
KIRA: Excuse me. Excuse me. This has gone far enough. 
(She breaks a plate) 
KIRA: Will somebody please tell me what is going on around here. Why are you doing this to us? What is wrong with you people? 
BASHIR: Madame, this is no laughing matter. 
(A waiter offers an orange drink) 
SISKO: Don't drink or eat anything. 
BASHIR: Maybe it's the Wadi's way of providing nourishment. 
(Sisko starts coughing on the gas coming from a vent) 
SISKO: Or maybe it's drugged or poisoned. 
(Falow enters, laughing) 
SISKO: Falow. 
FALOW: Drink? 
SISKO: We're not playing any more. 
FALOW: Move along. Move along home. 
SISKO: You brought us here. You take us home. 
(They all collapse, coughing) 
DAX: The smoke. 
BASHIR: Not bothering them. 
KIRA: You're hurting us. Can't you see that? 
(Bashir grabs a glass and drinks) 
BASHIR: Drink! It's the antidote. 
(Bashir passes the glass on, Falow gives one to Sisko then applauds) 
KIRA: How did you know? 
BASHIR: Scientific method. Actually, I took a guess. It didn't seem like I had much to lose. 
FALOW: Shap four. 
(A door opens and the party vanishes) 
SISKO: Let's go. 
[Quark's]
FALOW: Allamaraine! 
(The pieces are moved down a level and more gems handed over. Odo leaves.) 
[Ops]
ODO: Wouldn't your scans pick up human life signs on their ship? 
PRIMMIN: Usually, but we've never encountered Wadi technology before. 
ODO: Isolate that energy flux on their second deck. 
PRIMMIN: Some kind of intense bipolar current. 
ODO: What would cause something like that? 
PRIMMIN: Got me. The only thing we've got that would put out that type of current would be a transporter, but a transporter burst would only last for a few seconds. 
ODO: I think we better go take a look. 
PRIMMIN: No, wait a minute, Odo. You can't just go storming onto their ship without their permission. 
ODO: Oh, is that Starfleet policy? 
PRIMMIN: That's right. 
ODO: Well, I'm not in Starfleet. Set the coordinates to midway down the second deck corridor. Is it against Starfleet rules to press a few buttons? 
PRIMMIN: Energising. 
[Wadi ship corridor]
(Odo finds the door with the shap symbols on it, and opens it. There's a painfully bright light but he goes through into) 
[Quark's]
FALOW: Choose their path. 
ODO: No. This game is finished right now. 
FALOW: Stop the game. Lose your players. 
QUARK: Odo, just stay out of this. 
ODO: Quark. 
QUARK: I'm doing fine. They're doing fine. 
FALOW: Choose their path. Double their peril, double your winnings. 
ODO: Quark! 
QUARK: Fine. Fine. The safer path. 
FALOW: Roll. 
(Quark does) 
FALOW: An unfortunate roll. 
[Labyrinth]
BASHIR: Isn't it a matter of simply figuring out how to win this game? 
KIRA: Simply? 
DAX: I don't think we have any other choice. 
BASHIR: Seriously, we've gone from the second shap to the third shap to the fourth shap already. 
KIRA: What is a shap? 
BASHIR: I have no idea, but we're making progress, whatever it are. 
KIRA: We're playing for our lives here, Doctor. I don't think you're taking this very seriously. 
BASHIR: On the contrary, Major. I find the stakes to be highly motivating. 
SISKO: Listen. 
DAX: I'm reading high magnetic field variations. Intense flux patterns. It's coming toward us. 
SISKO: Find cover if you can. 
(Noisy swirly lights arrive. Sisko, Dax and Kira press themselves against the side walls but Bashir is left in front of the closed door.) 
(In Quark's, Falow takes a piece off the board, and Bashir vanishes along with the light.) 
SISKO: Falow! 
[Quark's]
FALOW: Next move. 
ODO: What happened to that one? Why is it there? 
FALOW: Next move. Choose their path. 
ODO: Listen to me. I want that player back. 
FALOW: If you would care to play the game after he's done, it can be arranged. Choose their path. Double their peril, double your winnings. 
QUARK: Give me the shortcut. 
ODO: The shortcut? 
QUARK: It's the right thing to do. 
ODO: Are you crazy? 
FALOW: Double the stakes. 
ODO: Wait! 
QUARK: I know what I'm doing. I've spent my life figuring the odds of all sorts of games. Now, I'm just learning this one, that's true, but I know this is the right move. 
ODO: The right move to make you rich. 
QUARK: More than that. Look at the board. The shortcut skips a whole level. I've learned there are risks in every roll of the dice. This way, they can advance all the way home on just one move. Trust a gambler. 
FALOW: Roll. 
(Quark holds out the dice to Odo) 
ODO: What? 
QUARK: Blow on them. 
ODO: Would you please just 
QUARK: Blow on them. 
(Odo blows, Quark rolls) 
FALOW: Thialo. 
(Two gold, one blue) 
QUARK: What does it mean? 
FALOW: Sacrifice one so that two may live. 
ODO: You can't ask him to do that. 
FALOW: If you do not sacrifice one, all three will be lost. 
QUARK: I can't. Please.
FALOW: Which player? 
QUARK: I don't even know which one is which. 
FALOW: Select one to be sacrificed or else this game is finished. 
QUARK: Fine! Fine! Fine. Fine. I can't do it. I beg of you. A terrible mistake has been made. This is all a misunderstanding. Please, I've learned my lesson. I'll never cheat again. I'll never cheat again! Please! Just don't make me do this. Anything but this. Please. Please. Please. 
(Quark is on his knees, crying.) 
FALOW: Very well. 
QUARK: I don't have to sacrifice one of them? 
FALOW: No. You do not. We'll programme the game to choose one at random. Final wagers. Last move. 
[Labyrinth]
KIRA: We should have eaten something at the party when we had the chance. 
BASHIR [OC]: Commander Sisko. 
SISKO: Doctor? 
BASHIR [OC]: Over here. Hurry! 
KIRA: Where's it coming from? 
SISKO: Spread out. 
BASHIR [OC]: I can see it! I've found the way home! 
DAX: Over here! I've found an open door. 
BASHIR [OC]: Come on, Dax 
[Cavern]
DAX: Julian! 
BASHIR [OC]: Hurry up! 
DAX: Julian, are you all right? 
(There's a tremor and Dax falls) 
SISKO: Dax! 
DAX: My leg! 
KIRA: Don't move. 
SISKO: Nothing's broken. 
BASHIR: (a silhouette against a bright light) What's taking so long? We're almost out of here. Can't you see it? 
SISKO: Doctor, we need some help, Dax is hurt. 
FALOW: Thialo. Move along home. Shap Six. 
KIRA: I'm reading a tectonic shift of two ground masses. We are directly over the fault line. The cavern wall structure has been significantly weakened by the stress. It's not going to hold much longer. 
SISKO: See if you can put some weight on it. Come on, let's get out of here. 
(They come to a ledge by a very deep but fairly narrow crevasse) 
DAX: I'll never make it across. 
SISKO: There's got to be a way around this. 
DAX: Benjamin, you and Kira can make that jump. 
KIRA: We're not leaving you here. 
DAX: This cavern is going to collapse and kill all of us if you don't go now. Seven lives is more than enough for a Trill. You haven't even finished one. 
SISKO: How could I live out that life knowing I left you behind, old man. 
DAX: Don't let sentiment get in the way 
SISKO + DAX: Of command decisions. 
SISKO: Yeah, I've heard that one somewhere. 
DAX: If you were hurt, I'd leave you behind. 
SISKO: Then I'm glad I'm not the one who's hurt. Major. Major, you go across. We'll find a way around. We'll be all right. 
(Kira helps Sisko support Dax) 
SISKO: Major, I gave you a direct order. 
KIRA: Court-martial me. 
SISKO: I can't. You're not in Starfleet. 
DAX: If I were your superior officer, I'd court-martial both of you. 
(They shuffle along the increasingly narrow ledge.) 
SISKO: Only a few metres more. 
(Another tremor, and everyone falls. Sisko grabs Kira as she goes over the edge) 
SISKO: Hang on! 
DAX: Benjamin! 
(All three are knocked over by a landslide) 
[Quark's]
(Bashir, Sisko, Kira and Dax appear) 
QUARK: They made it! I won! I had full confidence in you, Commander. There wasn't a moments doubt that you wouldn't prevail in this outrageous 
FALOW: No, Quark. I'm afraid all your players were lost. 
KIRA: What? You mean we were never in any real danger? 
FALOW: It's only a game. 
(Falow puts in some commands, the game disappears into a small box and the dabo table is back) 
FALOW: Time to move along home. 
SISKO: Not so fast. This may all have been a game to you, but we take first contact with a new species very seriously, and I don't appreciate 
ODO: Excuse me, Commander. 
SISKO: Yes, Odo? 
ODO: Before you blame them, you might want to ask Quark just how all this started. 
SISKO: Quark. 
QUARK: I wish I could explain it. They just had a run of bad luck and they blamed me for their losses and 
ODO: That's not what you said when you were grovelling on the floor. 
QUARK: Oh, that's right, you were here for the grovelling. 
ODO: You said something about cheating, didn't you? 
SISKO: Cheating? 
QUARK: I would have said anything to end the ordeal. It was too much for me to bear. You have no idea the pressure I was under, Commander. 
FALOW: If you will excuse us. Perhaps, someday, a rematch. 
QUARK: You know, this game could work here. It really could. Excuse me. Falow? Mister Falow? A word with you, sir. What's your hurry? I think you'll like this. Mister Falow! 

