Episode Number: 418
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Dramatis Personae
Dramatis Personae
Stardate: 46922.3
Original Airdate: 31 May, 1993
[Commander's office]
SISKO: Come in. 
KIRA: Commander, I just received word that a Valerian transport has requested permission to dock here at the station. 
SISKO: Let me guess. You're here to recommend that we deny that request. 
KIRA: The Valerians ran weapons-grade dolamide to Cardassian forces during the occupation of Bajor. 
SISKO: I'm aware of that. 
KIRA: I believe they're continuing to ship weapons to the Cardassians. Weapons that could eventually be used to attack Bajor. 
SISKO: I share your concern, Major. But unless we have proof to back up those charges 
KIRA: The proof is on that ship. Let me conduct a search and if I find any dolamide, we can confiscate it. 
SISKO: I'm afraid it's not that simple. Dolamide is used for power generators, reactors, in short-range transports. 
KIRA: And for weapons. 
SISKO: Only if it's extremely pure. 
KIRA: So we're going to do nothing. 
SISKO: I didn't say that. We just can't board their ship and start tearing it apart. 
KIRA: Well, what can we do? 
SISKO: You bring me evidence that the Valerians are dealing in weapons-grade dolamide and I promise you the Federation will use every kind of diplomatic pressure to stop them. 
KIRA: You think that'll work? 
SISKO: It will if the Valerians want to continue trading with the Federation. 
KIRA: All right. We'll try it your way. 
SISKO: Good. Then you will see to it that the Valerian ship is cleared for docking. 
KIRA: Yes, sir. 
[Ops]
DAX: Chief, I have a subspace message for you from your wife. They've arrived safely on Bajor. 
O'BRIEN: Imagine taking eleven bored schoolkids on a visit to the grain processing centre at Lasuma. I'm glad it's not me. 
(Odo enters) 
ODO: Here's the information you requested on the captain of the Valerian ship. 
KIRA: Let me know if you find anything else. 
DAX: Sensors are reading elevated neutrino levels at the wormhole. Something's coming through. 
KIRA: On screen. 
(WHOOSH) 
KIRA: Kira to Sisko. You'd better come out here. 
DAX: It's the Klingon vessel Toh'Kaht. 
KIRA: They weren't due back for another month. 
SISKO: Open hailing frequencies. 
(KaBOOM!) 
O'BRIEN: I'm reading a transporter signal. Someone must have beamed off the ship just as it exploded. 
(the transporter beam is not behaving) 
SISKO: Mister O'Brien? 
O'BRIEN: Something's interfering with the rematerialisation process. 
DAX: Lock on with our transporter signal. Try boosting the annular containment field. 
O'BRIEN: I'm already there. 
(The Klingon solidifies and collapses) 
BASHIR: He's been hit by weapons fire. It's severe. We've got to get him to cryostasis. 
KLINGON: Victory. 
BASHIR: He's dead. 
Station log, Stardate 46922.3. We have identified the dead Klingon his name was Hon'Tihl, First Officer of the Toh'Kaht. Why he died, and the cause of his ship's destruction, is still unknown. 
[Ops]
BASHIR: I found tritanium alloy fragments in his chest and upper arms. If that was all, we could have saved him, but those weapon burns were too severe. 
SISKO: Is there any way to identify the kind of weapon used? 
BASHIR: I'm running a microtissue analysis right now. I should have the results in a couple of hours. 
KIRA: The Klingon said victory just before he died. I wonder what he meant. 
DAX: According to Klingon High Command, the Toh'Kaht was in the Gamma quadrant on a routine bio-survey mission, 
O'BRIEN: Victory during a bio-survey? 
ODO: As I recall the Toh'Kaht put in for a maintenance check. 
SISKO: Ask around the station, see what you can learn about this bio-survey. 
(Odo leaves) 
SISKO: Dax and O'Brien, I'd like the two of you to take a runabout and try to find the Toh'Kaht's mission recorder. I want to know what caused that ship to explode. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
(O'Brien goes to the turbolift while Dax is still sitting and smiling) 
O'BRIEN: Lieutenant 
DAX: Yes. 
O'BRIEN: You coming? 
DAX: Yes. I'm sorry. (giggles) Never mind. 
(Later, the runabout has left) 
KIRA: Damn it, not yet. 
VALERIAN [on monitor]: Deep Space Nine, this is Valerian vessel Sherval Das. We are entering the Bajoran system, clear us for docking. 
KIRA: Negative, Sherval Das. There's going to be a slight delay. 
VALERIAN [on monitor]: We are in need of maintenance. It's been a long journey. 
KIRA: Oh, I'm sure it has, but we have our own problems. You'll just have to wait. 
SISKO: Stand by, Sherval Das. 
(pauses transmission) 
SISKO: I'd like an explanation. 
KIRA: I wasn't finished running a background check on their ship. 
SISKO: We agreed there would be no delays in the docking procedure. 
KIRA: They just visited Fahleena Three and Mariah Four, the same two stops they used to make when they were running dolamide to the Cardassians. The last stop would be the purification plant on Ultima Thule. Now if I can place them there, we'll know they're running weapons-grade material. 
SISKO: Your ship has been cleared for docking. 
VALERIAN [on monitor]: Thank you, Commander. Sherval Das out. 
SISKO: No delays, 
[Quark's]
ODO: So, Quark I heard you had some problems with the Klingons the last time they came through. 
QUARK: Spare me from beings who think pain is pleasure. In small doses, perhaps, but the Klingons? They're hard on the holosuites, they wreck the furniture. I'm still fixing the walls of holosuite six. I'm not saying they don't spend big. I'm just saying by the time you figure in the damage, I'm lucky to break even. 
ODO: They do tend toward bluster, don't they? Throwing their weight around, bragging. 
QUARK: This crew was worse than the last. Our glorious mission. I said, what's so glorious about a gamma quadrant bio-survey? 
ODO: And what did they say? 
QUARK: Crafty tonight, Odo, aren't we? Looking for clues about the fate of the Klingons. If I tell you what I heard, what do I get in return? 
ODO: The chances are what you heard won't help, so why should I give you something for it? 
QUARK: Because otherwise, I heard nothing. 
ODO: That damaged holosuite. Work crew seven is probably doing the repairs, am I right? 
QUARK: Ah, ha. 
ODO: Well it looks as though I might have to put in a priority request for work crew seven. The bulkheads in security could use a little shoring up. 
QUARK: They said they'd be coming back through the wormhole with something that would make the enemies of the Klingon Empire tremble. 
ODO: Their exact words? 
QUARK: Direct quote. 
ODO: You've been most helpful. 
QUARK: Don't let it get around. 
(Odo is gripped by sudden pain) 
QUARK: Odo? 
(Odo's 'head' divides in two and turns inside out, then he collapses.) 
QUARK: (running) Doctor Bashir! Doctor Bashir! Doctor Bashir! 
[Infirmary]
(Bashir is scanning Odo on a biobed when he suddenly wakes) 
BASHIR: Welcome back, Constable. 
ODO: How am I? 
BASHIR: How do you feel? 
ODO: Fine. 
BASHIR: Good. Because I have no way to know. Your body chemistry defies analysis. 
ODO: I don't remember anything, But I'm back to normal? 
BASHIR: Like I said, you tell me. I don't know what caused it, and I couldn't tell you if it'll happen again. In fact, there's really nothing more I can do here. 
ODO: Then thank you for your time, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Tell me, Odo, Do you share my concern about this Valerian situation? 
ODO: Concern? 
BASHIR: I think you know what I mean. 
ODO: Why don't you tell me and then you can be sure I know. 
BASHIR: Just don't be surprised if the uneasy alliance on this station starts to show a few cracks. 
ODO: What uneasy alliance? 
BASHIR: Commander Sisko and Kira. Mark my words, there's going to be trouble. 
ODO: What exactly are you basing all this on, Doctor? 
BASHIR: Very clever, Constable. But you're probably right. It's still too early to commit oneself either way. 
ODO: Are you finished with me? 
BASHIR: Unless you'd like to pour yourself through my phoretic analyser. I'd love to see the results. 
ODO: Another time, perhaps. 
[Commander's office]
(Sisko is working on a larger than usual PADD) 
KIRA: I've got them! 
SISKO: Who? 
(covers the PADD) 
KIRA: The Valerians. Their ship was at the Ultima Thule station one week ago. That confirms it. They're definitely running dolamide. 
SISKO: So? 
KIRA: So I've got an armed team ready to board their vessel. We confiscate the material and send them back where they came from. Frankly, I'm half-tempted to take them to Bajor and press charges. 
SISKO: By whose authority? 
KIRA: You're not going to do anything about this. 
SISKO: I'm not. And neither are you. 
KIRA: That ship is acting against Bajoran interests. This station is Bajoran property. 
SISKO: Commanded by a Federation officer. Commanded by me. Are you challenging that, Major? 
KIRA: No, sir. 
SISKO: Good. 
[Runabout]
DAX: Short-range sensors are picking up some debris. 
O'BRIEN: Looks like duranium alloy. Probably pieces of the Klingon's secondary hull. 
DAX: It's possible their mission recorder is somewhere in the debris. The magnetic field from the duranium could be masking it. 
O'BRIEN: Let's get a little closer. Major Kira's been awfully aggressive toward Commander Sisko lately about station policy. 
DAX: An honest difference of opinion. 
O'BRIEN: What if it's more than a difference of opinion? What if Kira thinks the Bajorans don't need us on DS Nine? It is their station. 
DAX: That would be suicidal. Without a Federation presence, Bajor would be vulnerable again to the Cardassians. 
O'BRIEN: That doesn't mean there aren't plenty of misguided Bajorans who think they can go it alone. You've become quite friendly with Major Kira, haven't you? 
DAX: Have I? Well, yes, I suppose I have, if you say so. 
O'BRIEN: Well, I wouldn't get too friendly with the natives if I were you. Remember where your loyalties lie. 
DAX: Of course. Benjamin and I have been close for a long time. Hand and glove. I'm on his side. No question about it. That reminds me of the time we found ourselves 
O'BRIEN: Good. Anyone who's against Sisko is against me. I'm picking up a weak subspace transponder signal. It's the mission recorder. 
[Security office]
KIRA: Constable. 
ODO: Can I help you, Major? 
KIRA: You always manage to help me, Odo. In fact, I think we work pretty well together, you and I. 
ODO: Yes, I suppose our relationship has always been cooperative. 
KIRA: Exactly. And that's just what I need right now. Your cooperation. I'm convinced the Valerians have dolamide on board, but the evidence is still circumstantial. I need solid proof. I want you to slip past their security systems and into their cargo bay. 
ODO: I heard that Commander Sisko was adamant about not interfering with the Valerian ship. Has he changed his mind? 
KIRA: Yes. 
ODO: How odd. Very well. I'll keep the two of you informed of my progress. 
KIRA: That won't be necessary. Commander Sisko's very busy. There's no sense in disturbing him. 
(Odo gives her a long Look) 
KIRA: I can't fool you, Odo. 
ODO: You wanted me to go behind Sisko's back, didn't you? 
KIRA: Forget it. Bad idea. What if you had to choose sides? Just remember who your friends are. 
Personal log, Miles O'Brien. Stardate 46923.1. We've managed to retrieve a portion of the Klingon Officer's journal. Of course, Major Kira heard about it immediately. She must have spies everywhere. 
[Ops]
KLINGON [on viewscreen]: (bad picture) I believe the Captain has gone insane. He executed two more crew members, charging them with attempted mutiny. Medical Officer ... quarters ... violence is being caused by those telepathic energy spheres we brought back from Saltah'na. Believing him to be the Captain's spy, I slit his throat. 
SISKO: (bored) I've seen enough. 
O'BRIEN: There's more. 
KIRA: The Klingon's mission must have failed. That failure caused problems on board. 
SISKO: I couldn't care less what happened to a Klingon ship. 
O'BRIEN: The Klingons might want to know. Dax and I are setting up a data interpolation to fill in what's missing. It might take some time. 
SISKO: If you have to. 
DAX: The search itself is often reward enough. Benjamin, do you remember that wild 
SISKO: Fine. Do whatever you have to do. Don't bother me with it. 
[Quark's]
(Quark pours the top blue layer over red and orange in a tall glass.) 
QUARK: Here we are. A Modela aperitif. It's bright and sweet. Much like yourself, Lieutenant. I'll put it on your tab. 
KIRA: The bad flattery's on the house. 
QUARK: The two loveliest creatures on DS Nine. I must be living correctly to be so blessed. What can I do for you, Major? 
KIRA: Get lost. 
QUARK: As you wish. 
(Quark leaves) 
KIRA: How are you, Lieutenant? 
DAX: You know what they say, put the shoe on the right foot first, but put the left foot first into the bathtub. 
KIRA: I understand. But what I really meant was, are you happy? 
DAX: That's not a question I get asked too often. 
KIRA: Oh, but it should be. In my opinion, you are the most valuable officer on this station. May I? 
DAX: Please. 
(Kira takes a sip of the aperitif) 
KIRA: Not bad. For Quark. 
DAX: It is good. 
KIRA: I couldn't imagine running this station without you. 
DAX: Are you trying to tell me something? 
KIRA: My disagreement with Sisko over the Valerians is no secret. Well, you know how he gets once he's made a decision. 
DAX: Yeah, it's like talking to a stone. I remember a time on Rochani Three. We were cornered by a party of Kaleans, who were not at all happy to see us, but Benjamin 
KIRA: You told me this story this morning. 
DAX: Oh. I suppose I did. 
KIRA: If you were to talk to Starfleet Command, tell them how displeased the Bajorans are with Sisko's handling of this. I know they'll listen to you 
DAX: I was decorated on my very first assignment. The Admiral was a Vulcan, so during the presentation ceremony 
KIRA: Dax. We have to keep the Valerians here until we can search their ship and confiscate the dolamide. You've got to convince Starfleet it's for the good of Bajor and the Federation. 
DAX: I've been friends with Benjamin Sisko for many years. In many ways, he's like a son, or a nephew. Some kind of close relative anyway. 
KIRA: Jadzia, listen to me. I'm getting rid of Sisko one way or another. Don't force me to get rid of you as well. 
(There's a clatter of glasses and Kira hauls Quark over the bar by the collar) 
KIRA: Would you like to join us? 
QUARK: Let me go! 
KIRA: What did you hear? 
QUARK: Nothing. Nothing at all. 
(Kira throws him back) 
KIRA: Good. 
[Security office]
(Quark enters wearing a neck brace) 
ODO: Is this a Ferengi fashion I'm not aware of? 
QUARK: Kira tried to tear my head off. I want to file charges. 
ODO: Tell me about it. 
QUARK: I heard her plotting. 
ODO: Go on. 
QUARK: She tried to convince Dax to take her side against Sisko. 
ODO: And did Dax seem persuaded? 
QUARK: What difference does that make? I was attacked! 
ODO: Answer the question. 
QUARK: I couldn't tell. She was on the fence. 
ODO: Doesn't Kira's behaviour seem a little out of the ordinary? And the others. At the staff briefing Sisko was bored as if he couldn't be bothered about running the station. And Bashir. Since when is he so concerned about station politics? 
QUARK: Don't look at me that way. I'm perfectly normal. 
ODO: Yes, I suppose you are. It's time I had a talk with Sisko. 
QUARK: Odo, wait! Odo! Wait! Odo! Odo! I want satisfaction. 
[Ops]
(Dax is absorbed in the Klingon log entry) 
KLINGON [on monitor]: We have ... battle for decks ... through twelve. Armoury ... in the hands of Captain Tel-Peh, ... my death. But I ... confident ... gain control of the ship. I am weakened by my wounds. 
ODO: Sisko? 
KLINGON [on monitor]: My enemies are moving in. I am 
[Commander's office]
(Doorbell) 
O'BRIEN: Come in. 
(He's also working on the log) 
ODO: Where's Commander Sisko? 
O'BRIEN: In his quarters, where he's safe. 
KLINGON [on monitor]: Still ... able to hide a thalmerite device under ... beam near the reactor ... deck twenty-six. Rather ... taken prisoner, I will blow up this ship and transport to safety. Perhaps medical officer Kee-Bhor was correct. Our ... began when we opened those energy spheres. All I know is that Captain Tel-Peh must die. Journal closed. 
ODO: It sounds like there was a power struggle on board, some sort of attempted takeover. 
O'BRIEN: Management by mutiny. Standard operating procedure on a Klingon vessel. 
ODO: But awfully unusual for a Federation-run space station. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. If Major Kira tries anything we'll be ready. 
ODO: When will the other log entries be available? 
O'BRIEN: At the current rate of processing it'll take at least seven more hours. But the computer's taking it one entry at a time. I'll set it up so you can access as it goes. 
ODO: Thank you, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Of course, Constable. Don't the Commander and I always try to make you happy? 
[Corridor]
(a door is being guarded) 
ODO: What are you doing here? 
GUARD: Chief O'Brien's orders. 
(Odo rings the doorbell) 
[Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: Come in. 
ODO: Commander. 
SISKO: Hello, Constable. How are you today? 
ODO: Concerned, sir. 
SISKO: On such a fine afternoon? How inappropriate. 
ODO: Commander, I think something might be wrong with some of us. Ever since the Klingon ship exploded and their First Officer beamed over, certain behaviours and attitudes have been abnormal. There appears to have been a mutiny on the Klingon ship. I wouldn't go so far as to say the same thing is happening on DS Nine, but I do find some disturbing parallels. 
SISKO: If something's bothering you, Odo, tell it to Mister O'Brien. That's what he's there for. 
(He holds up the completed blueprint) 
SISKO: What do you think? 
ODO: What is it? 
SISKO: A clock. Fascinating, isn't it? 
[Security office]
KIRA: It's not nice to keep a friend waiting. 
ODO: Did we have an appointment? 
KIRA: When have I ever had to stand on ceremony with you, Odo? I need your help. I took care of the Valerians. 
ODO: What do you mean? 
KIRA: I locked down their docking clamps. That ship isn't leaving until I say it is. O'Brien will need at least a day to do anything about it. By then, it won't matter. 
ODO: You're going after Sisko. 
KIRA: And O'Brien. Either we get a more reasonable commander from Starfleet, someone we can control, or we go it alone. With me running this place, you will be able to do what needs to be done. If you want to toss Quark out on his ears, toss him out. If you want to proclaim martial law on the Promenade, proclaim it. This station will be yours to protect with no interference. 
ODO: What's your plan? 
KIRA: Oh, Odo, I trust you more than anyone on this station because you can't be corrupted. But this is a dangerous time. I can't take any chances, even with you. When the time comes, you'll know it. I'll be counting on you. 
(Kira leaves) 
ODO: Computer, open a channel to Starfleet Headquarters. 
COMPUTER: Subspace communication to Federation territories is currently unavailable. 
ODO: Why? 
COMPUTER: By authority of Major Kira. 
ODO: Open a channel to the Bajoran Council. 
COMPUTER: Communication to Bajor is currently unavailable. 
ODO: By authority of Chief O'Brien? 
COMPUTER: That is correct. 
ODO: Computer, are you finished reconstructing the journal of the Klingon First officer. 
COMPUTER: Data interpolation is complete. 
ODO: On screen. Computer, scan the journal for mention of contact with any alien race. 
COMPUTER: One entry found. 
ODO: Play it. 
KLINGON [on monitor]: First Officer's journal, day twenty two. Exploration of the fifth planet turned out to be a waste of time. This world is not worthy of a Klingon colony. All we found were a collection of energy spheres which possess some type of telepathic archive. The spheres described an ancient power struggle that destroyed a race called the Saltah'na. We will forward these results to our science division. 
[Commander's office]
(Sisko is putting his clock together) 
O'BRIEN: Kira's already locked down the Valerian ship, and she's diverted half the station's systems to her control. 
SISKO: Since when? 
O'BRIEN: An hour ago. I've heard some disturbing rumours from our people on the Promenade. I think she's going to make an attempt on your life. 
SISKO: I want you to arrest them. Kira and every Bajoran officer on this station. I want the names of every sympathizer 
O'BRIEN: That's not a good idea, sir. There's a lot more of them than there are of us. If we tip our hand, it might work against us. 
SISKO: What can we do? 
O'BRIEN: Leave the station. 
SISKO: Never! Get me a phaser! I'll get rid of Kira! 
O'BRIEN: Hear me out, sir. We leave the station, raise a Federation attack force and return. On that day, we'll get rid of all your enemies. 
SISKO: How do we proceed? 
O'BRIEN: I need a few more hours to free up the Valerian ship. I've already talked to their Captain. He's more than happy to take us back to Federation space. 
SISKO: Call me as soon as you're ready. 
(And the clock is ticking) 
[Infirmary]
(Bashir is handing something small to a Bajoran officer) 
BASHIR: It'll take effect in two minutes. Plenty of time to get a good (Odo enters) Plenty of time for you to get a good night's sleep. 
BAJORAN: Thank you, Doctor. 
(The Bajoran officer leaves) 
BASHIR: Chronic insomnia. I think it's hormonal. So, how are you? 
ODO: I take it you've completed your autopsy of the Klingon. 
BASHIR: Of course. You know, Odo, events have been moving rapidly since our last conversation. I'd advise you to choose sides now or risk finding yourself without any friends at all. 
ODO: The Klingon, Doctor, what did you find? 
BASHIR: He's still dead, if that's what you mean. 
(Odo takes Bashir by the shoulders) 
ODO: I don't have time for jokes. Your findings could determine who controls this station. 
BASHIR: How? 
ODO: All in good time. First, tell me about the Klingon. 
BASHIR: Well, I found nothing very unusual. The columnar cells in his brain stem, perhaps. The membrane permeability was off. 
ODO: What could cause that? 
BASHIR: Any number of things. 
ODO: Could it have something to do with telepathy? The Klingons were studying the telepathic archives of an ancient race. 
BASHIR: If those archives were contained in a self-sustaining energy matrix, that could explain the changes in the Klingon's brain. 
ODO: Could that energy matrix have somehow caused them to re-enact the power struggle that destroyed the Saltah'nans. 
BASHIR: Possibly. What are you getting at? 
ODO: Doctor, I believe the Klingon brought the matrix with him and everyone in Ops was affected except me. Without a humanoid brain, my system rejected it. 
BASHIR: An interesting theory, Constable, but I'm certainly not behaving out of the ordinary. 
ODO: Of course not. But what if you and I are the only two who aren't affected? 
BASHIR: Do you think we could use this to our advantage? 
ODO: Exactly. 
BASHIR: Tell me your plan. 
ODO: The first thing we have to do is figure out how to remove the field from everyone affected. 
BASHIR: But then we'd lose our advantage. 
ODO: Would you prefer that someone blew up the station? 
BASHIR: I see your point. 
ODO: The power to control the energy matrix is the power to control this station. 
BASHIR: If I could determine the natural resonance frequencies of this telepathic field, I might be able to generate an interference signal which could force it out. 
ODO: Do it. I promise, Doctor, you won't regret it. 
[Ops]
SISKO: O'Brien, what's taking so long? 
O'BRIEN: Almost there, sir. We've got one more level of security lockouts to break through and the Valerian ship will be ready to go. 
BAJORAN: Commander, I have the report you asked for on those weapon scanners. 
SISKO: Give it to Mister O'Brien. 
BAJORAN: I really think you should see this, sir. 
(The Bajoran brings the thing Bashir gave him up toward Sisko's neck.) 
O'BRIEN: Commander! 
(Sisko knocks the Bajoran down the steps) 
DAX: Dax to Kira! 
(O'Brien knocks out Dax) 
SISKO: Is it Kira?! Did Kira put you up to this? 
BAJORAN: No. 
(Sisko punches him around Ops and down into the pit) 
SISKO: I want the truth. Is that clear? (picks up the thing) Let's see how this works. 
(Kira shoots a console) 
KIRA: Put it down. Sir. Take them. 
(Sisko and O'Brien beam out) 
KIRA: Dax, you were supposed to deactivate the transporter. 
DAX: I forgot. 
[Corridor]
O'BRIEN: Damn it. Kira must have set up a force field to keep us from beaming onto the Valerian ship. The transporter rerouted us here. 
SISKO: We've got to get to that ship. 
O'BRIEN: Odo's our only chance. He might be able to override the field. 
SISKO: You're sure we can trust him? 
O'BRIEN: I don't see we have any choice. 
SISKO: Sisko to Odo. 
[Infirmary]
ODO: Odo here. 
SISKO [OC]: Kira has moved against us. She has Dax on her side. 
[Corridor]
SISKO: We need your help, Constable. You've got to 
[Infirmary]
SISKO [OC]: Clear us a path to the Valerian ship. 
ODO: Take crossover bridge one to the cargo bay entrance into docking port four. 
[Corridor]
ODO [OC]: I'll keep it open for you. 
SISKO: Right. Sisko out. (throws down his comm. badge) Leave your comm. badge here. Don't look so worried, Chief. She hasn't beaten us yet. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
[Ops]
DAX: They're still in airlock corridor six. 
KIRA: What could they be doing in there? 
DAX: Maybe they've given up. 
KIRA: Sisko would rather die, which is fine with me. They must have taken off their comm. badges. That's all right. They won't get far. 
DAX: Somebody's taking out our forcefields. 
KIRA: Whoever it is knows how to override the security codes. Kira to Odo. 
[Infirmary]
ODO: Go ahead, Major. 
KIRA [OC]: Whose side are you on, Constable? 
ODO: Yours, of course. 
[Ops]
KIRA: Really? Then why are you helping Sisko escape? 
ODO [OC]: On the contrary. 
[Infirmary]
ODO: You'll find him trapped in cargo bay four. 
[Ops]
ODO [OC]: Consider it my gift to you. 
KIRA: Oh, my apologies. We'll see you there. 
[Infirmary]
KIRA [OC]: Kira out. 
BASHIR: Well done. You certainly fooled her, didn't you, Constable. 
ODO: We're running out of time, Doctor. 
BASHIR: I'm just about finished. I've set up an ionic interference signal in cargo bay four, calibrated to lock onto the resonance frequencies of the telepathic field and drive it out of all those affected. 
ODO: And what will happen to it then? 
BASHIR: It'll remain suspended as long as the interference is in effect. 
ODO: That's all I need to know. Let's go. 
[Cargo bay four]
(Sisko and O'Brien run through, but can't open the next door) 
SISKO: What's wrong? 
O'BRIEN: It's been sealed. 
(Sisko starts to go back the way they came.) 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't do that, sir. You might run into Kira. She must have realised we removed our comm. badges by now. 
(O'Brien gets into the door mechanism) 
O'BRIEN: It's completely locked down. Someone's activated a level five security protocol. There's only one other person on this station besides yourself who has that kind of access. 
SISKO: Odo! 
KIRA: Relax, Commander. He'll be here any minute. 
SISKO: So, this is how it all ends. 
KIRA: For you. 
SISKO: You know what disturbs me? The ingratitude. I offered you my kindness, my help, my leadership, and how do you repay me? With betrayal. But you won't get rid of me so easily. You see, unlike you, I understand history. My name will blaze across the stars long after your petty treacheries have been forgotten. 
KIRA: But you won't be here to see it. 
(Before she can fire, Odo and Bashir enter) 
ODO: Major, wait! 
KIRA: Glad you two could make it. 
ODO: Computer, execute Odo one. 
(A high pitched noise makes everyone grab their heads in pain, and a purple haze comes out of them) 
SISKO: Constable? 
ODO: Everyone grab hold of something secure. 
(Odo opens the outer doors, the purple is sucked out with the air, and Odo shuts it again.) 
ODO: Welcome back, everybody. 
Commander's log, stardate 46924.5. With nothing to contain it, the telepathic matrix has dispersed in space. Meanwhile, I'm happy to report everything and everyone aboard DS Nine has returned to normal. 
[Commander's office]
KIRA: Did you really build that? 
SISKO: Apparently so. 
KIRA: Why? 
SISKO: I have no idea. 
KIRA: I know that none of us were really responsible for our actions, but I feel like I owe you an apology. 
SISKO: For attempted mutiny. 
KIRA: Well, yes. 
SISKO: I think we'll let it go. This time. 
(Sisko sets the alien timepiece going again and gazes at it. 

