Episode Number: 545
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Reckoning
The Reckoning
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 27 Apr, 1998
[Wardroom]
SISKO: The Dominion has solidified its hold on the Kalandra Sector. They're trying to establish a supply line running through Betazoid space into the Argolis Cluster. 
WORF: If they succeed, they will be able to launch an attack against Vulcan. 
SISKO: Starfleet's going to try to cut them off near the Tibor Nebula. The Seventh Fleet will be engaging the enemy in the morning. 
DAX: The Seventh Fleet is still at half-strength. They took heavy losses at Sybaron. 
SISKO: Well let's just hope they can get the job done. On a happier note, I do have a bit of good news. 
BASHIR: That makes a welcome change. 
SISKO: The Romulans have forced the Dominion to retreat from the Benzite system. 
ODO: That is good news. The question is, will the Romulans be willing to leave Benzar after the war is over? Once they capture territory, they very rarely give it up. 
SISKO: Right now, we need to concentrate on beating the Dominion. We'll worry about the Romulans later. As some of you already know, Major Kira, Jake and I will be leaving for Bajor at twenty two hundred. 
DAX: There's a war on. This is no time for a vacation. 
KIRA: The archaeologists excavating B'hala have found something they want the Emissary to see. 
SISKO: We'll be returning tomorrow night. That's all, people. 
(Everyone leaves except Kira and Odo.) 
KIRA: Will the Romulans leave Benzar? You love to bring up the worst-case scenario in these meetings, don't you? 
ODO: Somebody has to. Besides, everyone expects me to be dour and suspicious. I don't want to disappoint them. KIRA: If they only knew the real you. 
ODO: That is the real me. At least as far as everyone else is concerned. 
[Tunnel]
KORAL: (a monk) I can't tell you how pleased we are by your visit, Emissary. 
SISKO: Glad to be here, Ranjen. 
KORAL: Oh, there's no need to keep calling me Ranjen. I'm a simple monk. My order is quite informal. 
SISKO: You've certainly been busy. The last time I visited the ruins, none of these tunnels had been cut yet. 
KORAL: It's been a great deal of work, but we do it gladly. Excavating the Holy City is a privilege. Our efforts are an expression of our faith in the Prophets and in the Emissary. 
SISKO: It's very inspiring to see. 
KIRA: Something wrong, Jake? 
JAKE: No. It's just that Dad seems to be taking his role as Emissary very seriously these days. 
KIRA: You say that like you think it's a bad thing. 
JAKE: You have to admit, I mean, it's a long way to come to see some old ruins. 
KIRA: They may have found some very important religious artefacts in these old ruins. 
JAKE: Yeah, I hope so, otherwise I don't have a story. 
KIRA: Hey, try to look like you're enjoying yourself. Your father needs this. It's good for him not to have to think about the Dominion for a few hours. 
(Further on, squeaking.) 
KORAL: Oh, don't let the bats bother you. 
KIRA: Don't worry, they rarely bite.;
JAKE: Rarely? 
(And further still.) 
KORAL: We're directly below the Temple of B'hala. These walls predate the ancient city by ten thousand years. 
(They stop in front of the remains of a carving on the wall.) 
JAKE: Who built this place? 
KORAL: We don't know much about the original inhabitants, but it appears they abandoned this site some twenty five thousand years ago. Over time, sediment buried the ruins. 
JAKE: And then B'hala was built on top of them. 
KORAL: Precisely. In here. 
[Chamber]
(Koral switches on fluorescent tubes at knee height and leads them past a square column to an oval recess carved like the familiar Bajoran symbol.) 
KORAL: It's over thirty thousand years old. 
SISKO: These inscriptions. They look like ancient Bajoran, but I can't quite make it out. 
KORAL: Neither can we, though we've been able to piece together a few of the translations. The syntax is unusual, but all forms of Bajoran share certain root ideograms. You may recognise this one. 
SISKO: Welcome. 
KORAL: Here's where it gets interesting. 
(Kira comes in for a closer look as well, then looks at Sisko in concern.) 
KORAL: I see you recognise it. 
JAKE: What? I don't. 
KIRA: It says, Welcome, Emissary. 
KORAL: Now you know why I asked you here. (Sisko reaches to touch the carving and promptly gets taken into a vision.) 
[Limbo - chamber]
KORAL: The Sisko has come. 
KIRA: The circle is complete. 
JAKE: The reckoning must begin. 
SISKO: The reckoning? 
KIRA: Much will depend on the Sisko. 
KORAL: He is corporeal. 
JAKE: Limited. 
KIRA: He is the Sisko. He will not waver. 
JAKE: He is of Bajor. 
KIRA: He will bring the reckoning. 
SISKO: What is it you expect of me? 
KORAL: It will be the end. 
JAKE: Or the beginning. 
SISKO: I don't understand. 
KIRA: The Sisko will know. 
[Chamber]
(The vision ends and Sisko goes flying back against the wall. He's out cold for the opening titles.) 
JAKE: Dad, are you okay? 
SISKO: Yeah, right. The Prophets. They were here. They spoke to me. 
KORAL: You had a vision, Emissary? We saw nothing. 
KIRA: What did they say? 
SISKO: They mentioned something about a reckoning. Is that part of some prophecy? 
KORAL: Not one that I know of. 
JAKE: Let's get out of here. 
SISKO: It's all right, Jake. We'll be leaving soon. I have got to find out what these inscriptions say. 
KORAL: I wish we could translate them more quickly, but we don't have the resources. 
SISKO: Fortunately, we do. 
[Science lab]
(Dax is scanning the carving with a tricorder.) 
DAX: I had a pretty good idea what this was the minute I laid eyes on it. That confirms it. It's a slab of stone with some writing on it. 
SISKO: Dax. 
DAX: What do you want me to say, Benjamin? I'm not picking up any residual energy readings, certainly nothing that would explain how it threw you across the room. 
SISKO: I want you to translate the inscriptions. 
DAX: I was afraid you were going to say that. 
SISKO: The Ranjen's translation programme. It's not complete, but at least it's a start. Good luck.; 
[Promenade]
(A Bajoran priest rings a small wind chime.) 
PRIEST: Services are about to begin. Captain, services are about to begin. 
(Sisko starts to enter the Temple when) 
WORF [OC]: Ops to Captain Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
WORF [OC]: We just received a communication from Bajor. 
[Ops]
WORF: Kai Winn is on her way to the station. 
(Sisko leaves the Temple.) 
[Airlock]
(At the top of an upper pylon.) 
SISKO: Welcome to Deep Space Nine, your Eminence. 
WINN: Thank you, Emissary. 
SISKO: What brings you to the station? 
WINN: I should think that would be clear. You removed an artefact from an archaeological site without consulting the Vedek Assembly. 
SISKO: I meant no disrespect. 
(They walk and talk.) 
WINN: You can understand how we would be sensitive to such matters. During the occupation, the Cardassians plundered Bajor's historical treasures as if it were their right. I never imagined that you would behave in the same manner. 
SISKO: I assure you that the artefact will be returned as soon as I've finished studying it. 
WINN: I was not aware that you had expertise in Bajoran history. 
SISKO: I don't. 
WINN: Then why not leave the artefact in the hands of those who do? There are scholars on Bajor who have devoted their lives to the study of such things. 
SISKO: I understand, but I brought it here because I believe that's what the Prophets want. 
WINN: I see. Then I take it this has something to do with your vision? 
SISKO: Exactly. 
WINN: Forgive me. I didn't realise that the Prophets told you to bring the relic here. 
SISKO: Well, they didn't. Not in so many words. 
WINN: I see. Then exactly what did they say? 
SISKO: It's difficult to explain. The Prophets aren't always clear. 
WINN: Since they have never spoken to me, I'll have to take your word for it. 
SISKO: All I know is, for now it belongs here. 
WINN: Who am I to argue with the Emissary of the Prophets? 
[Science lab]
SISKO: And then she contacted Starfleet and lodged a formal protest. 
DAX: Is that why Admiral Ross wanted to talk to you? Well, how'd it go? 
SISKO: He told me to stop meddling in Bajoran affairs and return the damn tablet. 
DAX: You know how Starfleet feels about this Emissary thing. It makes them very uncomfortable that you've allowed the Bajorans to view you as a religious icon. It used to make you uncomfortable, too. 
SISKO: Not anymore. I guess the Prophets have spoken to me one too many times. 
DAX: I remember when you used to call them wormhole Aliens. 
SISKO: Wormhole aliens or Prophets, it really doesn't matter. The fact is, they exist out of time, and over the centuries they've given the Bajorans glimpses of the future. Glimpses that the Bajorans have written down to help them guide succeeding generations. If whatever is written here can help me avoid mistakes, can help me make the right decisions, then I'd be a fool to ignore it. 
DAX: Fair enough. But if you don't mind, I'm going to continue to think of them as wormhole aliens. 
SISKO: All I know is that they have a relationship with Bajor that stretches back over a thousand years. They care about what happens to the Bajorans. They proved that when they kept the Dominion fleet from coming through the wormhole. 
DAX: Didn't you have to talk them into it? Didn't they say they would exact some kind of penance for helping you? 
SISKO: Yes, but they listened, and they saved Bajor and the rest of the Alpha Quadrant. Now they're asking me for something in return. I don't know what it is yet, but I'm not going to return the tablet until I do. It's the key. I can feel it. 
(Translation matrix Bajor 576 is up on a wall monitor.) 
DAX: I hope you're wrong about that, Benjamin. 
SISKO: What have you got? 
DAX: The computer has translated part of the inscription. It probably lacks the eloquence of the original passage, but you'll get the gist of it. Here it is in modern Bajoran. 
SISKO: The time of reckoning is at hand. The Prophets will weep. Their sorrow will consume the Gateway to the Temple. 
DAX: Tell me I'm wrong, but isn't the Gateway to the Temple Deep Space Nine? 
[Quark's cafe]
WORF: I was just telling you what the translation said. I did not say I believed it.;
BASHIR: Well, I'm not worried. If you look hard enough, you'll find a Bajoran prophecy for just about anything. The Ancient Texts are a tangle of vague contradictions. 
ODO: This one is anything but vague, and Bajoran prophecies have an odd way of coming true. 
BASHIR: Don't say me you believe in this stuff, too? 
(Quark brings their drinks.) 
QUARK: Odo believes in preparing for the worst. 
ODO: True. 
QUARK: He's as bad as the Bajorans. Business hasn't been this slow since the Dominion was here. You know, I feel I have a civic duty to do something about all this doom and gloom, which is why I want to tell you that I've extended happy hour. 
BASHIR: Extended it? 
QUARK: From now on, every hour is happy hour. At least until business picks up. Eat, drink and be merry. 
BASHIR: For tomorrow we die. 
ODO: So, what does the Captain say about this? 
WORF: He's reserving judgement until the computer has finished the translation.;
BASHIR: Who knows? The rest of the tablet probably says go to Quark's. It's happy hour. 
QUARK: I like the way you think, Doctor. 
(Quark leaves.) 
BASHIR: Oh, this is ridiculous. Nothing's going to happen. Someday we're going to look back on this and laugh. 
(There's a rumble and the station shakes.) 
ODO: What was that? 
(Across the upper Promenade, we see the wormhole goes WHOOSH through a window. The station shakes again and the wormhole closes.) 
BASHIR: How did that Prophecy go again? 
[Replimat]
KIRA: You don't have to do this, you know. 
ODO: Don't have to do what? 
KIRA: Sit here, watch me eat. 
ODO: I don't mind. In fact, I rather enjoy it. You eat with such gusto. Most of the time. 
KIRA: Not today. I just wish that we knew more about the reckoning. It'd give us a better idea of what the Prophets want from us. 
ODO: It seems to me that if the Prophets want the Bajoran people to follow a given path, they should provide more specific directions. 
KIRA: It doesn't work like that. 
ODO: Maybe it should. 
KIRA: The Kai would say that you lack faith. 
ODO: And you would agree. 
KIRA: I just don't know how people make it through the day without it. 
ODO: We manage. Besides, I do have faith in some things. 
KIRA: Such as? 
ODO: You. 
KIRA: I'll try not to disappoint you. 
[Captain's office]
WINN: No doubt you've heard the latest news from Bajor. 
SISKO: About the flooding in Rakantha Province, yes. 
WINN: There was also an earthquake in the Kendra Valley last night. This morning a tornado struck Tamulna. 
SISKO: Our sensors indicate that Bajor has been affected by the instability of the wormhole. 
WINN: How comforting. Tell me, do your sensors have an explanation for the instability itself? 
SISKO: No. 
WINN: Then I'll give you one. You've angered the Prophets by taking the tablet from Bajor. As the spiritual leader of the Bajoran people, I'm asking you to return it. 
SISKO: And as Emissary of the Prophets, I will ask you to give me more time to study it. I believe it is the will of the Prophets. 
WINN: Well I disagree. This is a formal request from the First Minister for you to turn over the relic to me. 
SISKO: You must have been very persuasive. This is the first time you and Shakaar have agreed on anything. 
WINN: If you deny his request, I promise you it will damage relations between Bajor and the Federation. 
SISKO: The tablet will be on its way to Bajor on the morning transport. 
WINN: As will I. 
[Science lab]
DAX: You're sending it back? And I was just starting to have fun. 
SISKO: You're not off the hook, old man. I need these inscriptions translated. 
DAX: I can work off the holo-recordings I took yesterday. 
SISKO: Have you made any more progress? Good news or bad? DAX: That depends. 
SISKO: On what? 
DAX: What this ideogram means. The computer has given me two possibilities. 
SISKO: They are? 
DAX: During the reckoning, the Bajorans will either suffer horribly or eat fruit. 
SISKO: Eat fruit? DAX: Given the tone of the rest of the inscriptions, I would bet on horrible suffering. 
SISKO: What else do you have? 
DAX: You'll love this. It's about you. Once the reckoning begins, the Emissary will 
SISKO: Go on. 
DAX: I was hoping you could tell me. The rest of the inscription's damaged. 
SISKO: That figures. 
(Another rumble and shake.) 
DAX: Oh, I wish the wormhole would stop doing that. 
SISKO: So do I. Keep at it, old man. 
DAX: Just do me one favour. If you talk to the Prophets again, ask for a dictionary. Please. 
SISKO: I'll see what I can do. 
DAX: Thank you. 
[Ops]
KIRA: Captain, I have a message for you from General Martok. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
KIRA: He's dispatched three Klingon attack cruisers to bolster the defence perimeter around the Dorala System. 
SISKO: Good. I just hope they can hold out until Starfleet sends in reinforcements. 
KIRA: The Klingons will hold out. Martok will see to it. Long day? 
SISKO: They seem to get longer. 
KIRA: You'll feel better in the morning. Once the Kai is off the station. 
SISKO: She may be the spiritual leader of millions of Bajorans, but she is not an easy woman to like. 
KIRA: Well, if it's any comfort, I don't think she likes you either. 
SISKO: I've known that for a while. I guess I should have consulted her before I brought the artefact up to the station. 
KIRA: She would've tried to stop you. 
SISKO: Ah. That's why I didn't ask her. 
KIRA: In a way, I feel sorry for her. She spends her whole life in service to the Prophets. Then one day, after years of self-sacrifice and commitment, she's gets her reward. She's elected Kai. It should have been the greatest moment of her life. 
SISKO: But my being the Emissary spoiled it for her. 
KIRA: The Kai has always been the spiritual leader of Bajor, but Winn has to share that role with you. And to make matters worse, you're an outsider, a non-Bajoran. That's something she can never forgive you for. 
SISKO: I guess that's why she made such an issue of the whole thing. 
KIRA: She's jealous of you and of your relationship with the Prophets. I'm a little envious myself. 
SISKO: Why? 
KIRA: You speak with the Prophets. They listen to you. That's a rare gift. 
SISKO: It's certainly nothing I asked for. 
KIRA: I guess that's why I don't resent you, but the Kai does. 
SISKO: I'll keep that in mind. 
[Promenade - upper level]
(Winn has just watched the wormhole shut again.) 
KIRA: Is something wrong, Eminence? 
WINN: What makes you say that, child? 
KIRA: You seem troubled. 
WINN: Not at all. I am quite relieved the Emissary has decided to do the right thing. 
KIRA: You didn't leave him much choice, did you. 
WINN: I suppose you think I enjoyed forcing his hand. I assure you I did not. I wish the situation had been resolved more amicably. Perhaps the next time we have a disagreement, he'll consider my wishes more thoughtfully. 
KIRA: The next time? You're anticipating more disagreements? 
WINN: I merely meant to express my hope that in the future, we can work together for the good of Bajor. 
KIRA: Of course. After all, you are on the same side, aren't you? 
WINN: Naturally. We both serve the Prophets. There is no higher calling. 
[Sisko's quarters]
(WHOOSH and shake, then the doorbell.) 
SISKO: Yes. Jake-o. 
JAKE: You're up late. 
SISKO: So are you. What's on your mind? 
JAKE: I don't know. I guess I just wanted to see if you're all right. 
SISKO: I'm fine. Since when did you become a worrier? 
JAKE: I don't know. It's this Emissary stuff. It scares me a little. Twice now, twice in one year, Doctor Bashir's called me down to the Infirmary to tell me something was wrong with you. And there you were, lying unconscious on a biobed, having visions or something. And all I could do was stand there and wonder if you were going to wake up. 
SISKO: I know it hasn't been easy, Jake. 
JAKE: I don't want it to happen again. 
SISKO: You know, I didn't ask to be the Emissary. But for better or worse, I guess that's what I am. Except for being your dad. 
(Later that night, Sisko can't sleep so he gets up and goes to) 
[Science lab]
SISKO: Why do you always have to be so damn mysterious? Answer me. I am tired of your riddles. If you need me to do something, say so. 
(Then Sisko picks up the tablet and throws it against a wall strut. It smashes, and vapours rise from the fragments. Some are blue, some are red. They fly off through the ceiling. Uh oh. Later.) 
DAX: Let me guess. You accidentally knocked it over.;
SISKO: Not exactly. 
DAX: I didn't think so. 
ODO: So what did happen? 
SISKO: I just had this uncontrollable urge to smash the tablet. 
DAX: Oh, I get those urges all the time. Of course, I never act on them. I'm not reading any residual energy signatures. 
SISKO: That's impossible. Check the station's internal sensors. 
ODO: Nothing. 
SISKO: I tell you, I saw something. 
ODO: We believe you, Captain. 
SISKO: Oh, please, Constable, don't patronise me. (The station shakes and the power dips and returns.) 
SISKO: Sisko to Ops. Report. 
[Ops]
WORF: We just experienced a stationwide power drain. We are attempting to determine the source. 
[Science lab]
SISKO: Keep me informed.;
WORF [OC]: Aye, Sir.;
ODO: It's possible the power drain is related to this energy discharge you saw. 
DAX: I'm starting to think the same thing. 
(Sisko hefts a fragment of stone.) 
DAX: Benjamin, you're not getting another urge, are you? 
SISKO: No. I've done what I needed to do. I know this might sound strange, but I think the Prophets wanted me to shatter the tablet. 
DAX: Try explaining that to Kai Winn. 
[Captain's office]
WINN: I can't believe that you'd be so petty as to destroy the artefact rather than turn it over to me. 
SISKO: That's not why I did it. 
WINN: You expect me to believe that the Prophets wanted you to destroy a priceless piece of Bajor's history? 
SISKO: That's exactly what you have to believe. 
WINN: And why would they do that? 
SISKO: I wish I had an answer for you. 
WINN: Well I'm sure you'll come up with something. 
SISKO: You and I haven't always seen things eye to eye, but we have one thing in common. We both believe that the Prophets have a plan for Bajor. Sometimes it's not easy to see the path they've laid out for us. Right now, I don't know what they want from me, but I'm willing to take a leap of faith and trust that they're guiding me, and I'm asking you to take that leap with me. WINN: There's no need for a leap of faith, Emissary. The Prophets have made it quite clear. Two thirds of the Rakantha wheat harvest has been destroyed by floods. Earthquakes have devastated Kendra Province, leaving hundreds homeless. Bajorans are suffering because of you. They're paying the price for your act of sacrilege. 
(Another power drain.) 
ODO [OC]: Odo to Captain Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
ODO [OC]: You'd better come down to the Promenade, sir. 
SISKO: Is there a problem?;
ODO [OC]: I'll let you be the judge of that. 
[Promenade]
(Kira is standing in the entrance to the Temple, electricity crackling between her fingertips and the doorframe.) 
ODO: I think we've found the source of the power fluctuations. When I tried to talk to her, she ignored me. 
(Possessed Kira comes over to Sisko and Winn. A strong wind blows down the Promenade. Lights flicker and glasses explode. When Kira speaks, her voice has an echo.) 
KIRA: You are the Sisko. 
SISKO: Keep your hands off your weapons. It's a Prophet. Why have you taken this woman's body? 
KIRA: This vessel is willing. The reckoning. It is time. 
SISKO: The reckoning, what is it? 
KIRA: The end. Or the beginning. 
SISKO: I don't understand. 
KIRA: I await Kosst Amojan. 
WINN: The Evil One. A Pah-wraith banished from the Celestial Temple. 
SISKO: You're saying a Pah-wraith will take corporeal form as well? 
KIRA: The battle will be joined. 
SISKO: This battle, is it to be fought here? 
KIRA: Bajor will be reborn. 
WINN: Shabren's Fifth Prophecy. The rebirth. If the Evil One is destroyed, it will bring a thousand years of peace. The Golden Age of Bajor. 
SISKO: If it is destroyed? 
WINN: Who will prevail is not known. 
SISKO: What do you want from me? Am I supposed to help you in some way? 
KIRA: The Sisko has completed his task. 
WINN: Forgive my blindness. 
(Kira walks away.) 
WINN: Prophet, hear me. I am the Kai of Bajor. I offer myself to you as your humble servant, 
KIRA: I await their vessel. 
WINN: Speak to me. Tell me what I should do. 
[Ops]
SISKO: We're evacuating. 
BASHIR: You can't be serious. 
SISKO: This battle could destroy the station. 
DAX: Then don't let it be fought here. 
SISKO: I don't have any choice. 
DAX: Yes, you do. We can flood the Promenade with chroniton radiation. 
WINN: Are you that suggesting we kill a Prophet? 
SISKO: I won't do that. 
BASHIR: You don't have to. If you ramp up the chroniton levels slowly, it'll give the wormhole alien a chance to leave Kira's body without getting hurt. 
DAX: We have everything rigged and ready to go. Just say the word. 
SISKO: No. 
DAX: Benjamin. 
WORF: Deep Space Nine is critical to the defence of the Federation. We cannot risk destroying it. 
SISKO: When the Dominion fleet was about to come through the wormhole, I asked the Prophets for their help. They gave it to me. Now they're asking for my help. They need to fight this battle here, now. I'm not going to jeopardise my crew, but I'm not going to stand in the way of the Prophets either. 
BASHIR: What if the Prophets lose? Are you willing to sacrifice Kira? 
SISKO: The Prophet said she was willing to be their instrument. 
WORF: And you believe that? 
ODO: I do. I know how important her faith is to her and I have no doubt that she would allow the Prophets to use her as their instrument. 
SISKO: I'll notify Starfleet that we're abandoning the station. Begin the evacuation immediately. 
[Airlock]
ODO: Hurry along now, hurry along. 
WORF: Is this transport full? 
ODO: There's room. I'm going to check the Promenade for stragglers. 
WORF: Odo, you should have helped us persuade the Captain to end this. 
ODO: I had to respect Kira's wishes. 
WORF: If it were Dax, I am not sure I could have done the same. 
ODO: Just be grateful you didn't have to make that choice. 
WORF: For your sake, I hope the Prophets are victorious. 
ODO: They will be, if Kira has anything to do with it. 
WORF: Come on. 
[Ops]
(Sisko comes out of his office.) 
SISKO: Report. 
DAX: We expect to be down to a skeleton crew within the hour. 
SISKO: Very well. 
DAX: What did Starfleet have to say? 
SISKO: I managed to convince them that we couldn't afford to defy the Prophets. 
WORF: They are the only thing that's keeping the Dominion from coming through the wormhole. 
DAX: The only problem is, there's no guarantee the Prophets will win this battle. 
ODO [OC]: Odo to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead, Constable. 
ODO [OC]: Captain, there's a group of Bajorans on the Promenade who are refusing to leave. 
[Promenade]
(By the motionless figure of possessed Kira is a prayer meeting.) 
WINN: Teradak embah ihsehelm ran embrah. 
ALL: Daram tameen. 
WINN: Teradak ihsehelm ran embrah. 
ALL: Daram tameen. 
ODO: The last transports are standing by. 
WINN: Teradak ihsehelm ran embrah. 
ALL: Daram tameen. 
SISKO: Eminence. 
WINN: Emissary. 
SISKO: These people have to go. 
WINN: We are offering prayers for the Prophet's victory. 
SISKO: The Prophets will hear your prayers wherever you are. It isn't safe here. 
WINN: Then why are you still here, Emissary? The Prophet told you your task was done. 
SISKO: I am Captain of this station and I will do everything in my power to save it. Now, are you going to tell these people to go, or shall I? 
WINN: My children, the Prophets have heard your prayers. You must go. 
SISKO: Take them to the transports. 
ODO: All right, this way. 
WINN: Congratulations, Emissary. Thanks to you, the Prophets' victory is at hand. 
SISKO: I hope you're right. 
WINN: Where is your faith, Emissary? You don't think the Evil One will be victorious, do you? Rest assured, the Golden Age is upon us. The Prophets and the people will be as one. Think of it. There will be no need for Vedeks or Kais or even Emissaries. 
(The power flickers.) 
KIRA: Kosst Amojan has chosen its vessel. 
(On the upper level, a young man leans over the rail, electricity sparking from his fingers. His voice is deep and croaky and his eyes glow red.) 
JAKE: Let it begin. 
(After the break, possessed Jake is down on the Promenade.) 
SISKO: Leave my son and take me instead. 
JAKE: Your Emissary offers himself to us. His faith wavers. 
(Jake throws Sisko back along the Promenade with a wave of his hand. Energy plays over the possessed bodies, blue for good on Kira, red for bad on Jake. Then a stream of energy comes out of each of them and collides midway. The battle is joined. Veins stand out on both combatants foreheads under the effort.) 
WINN: Emissary, we must go. 
(Kira's nose starts to bleed. Jake is suffering. Dax comes out of the turbolift.) 
DAX: Benjamin! Worf is standing by in Ops. He can trigger the chroniton generator at your command. You can still end this, Ben. 
SISKO: No, I've got to play this thing out. 
DAX: That is your son out there! 
SISKO: Don't you think I know that? The Prophets will protect him. 
DAX: They're trying to kill him. 
SISKO: No, they're trying to destroy the Pah-wraith. The Prophets will not let anything happen to him. 
DAX: How do you know that? 
SISKO: I know. 
DAX: We've got to get out of here. According to the sensors, the energy building between them could explode any second. 
SISKO: I'm not going to leave Jake here. 
WINN: We must go, Emissary. 
DAX: Benjamin. 
SISKO: Get out of here. Get off the station, both of you! That's an order. 
WINN: Come, child. We must go. 
[Corridor]
DAX: Dax to Worf. 
[Ops]
WORF: Go ahead. 
{Corridor]
DAX Meet me at airlock eight. We're leaving. 
(Dax and the Kai come out of a turbolift onto another corridor. There's a woman and children scared by the exploding fittings.) 
DAX: Go on ahead. Airlock eight is down to the right. 
MAN: This way. Move quickly. Let's go. Come on. 
(Winn goes in the opposite direction.) 
MAN: Hurry up. 
DAX: (picking up a child.) It's okay, it's okay. 
[Promenade]
(Electricity crackles over the outside of the station as the runabouts leave. The two combatants are reaching the end of their strength, but Jake looks the worse of the pair for wear. Then something happens.) 
KIRA: No! 
[Ops]
COMPUTER: Chroniton levels at thirty seven percent and rising. 
WINN: May the Prophets forgive me. 
[Promenade]
(The energy streams from the possessed pair fade and die. The spirits leave Jake and Kira, who collapse. Kira wakes quickly but Sisko cradles his son.) 
SISKO: Jake. 
Captain's log, supplemental. The station's population has returned and repairs are underway. Major Kira has recovered from her experience but my son is still in the Infirmary. 
[Infirmary]
SISKO: Jake? 
BASHIR: He'll be laid up for a few days, but he'll all right. 
SISKO: May I see him? 
BASHIR: Oh, yes. 
SISKO: Jake. 
JAKE: Dad. 
SISKO: How are you feeling? 
JAKE: Could be worse. 
SISKO: You'll be up and about in no time. I don't know what to say. 
JAKE: Say you're happy to see me. 
SISKO: You know I am. Jake, I wish I. I want to explain what happened, but I'm not sure that I can. 
JAKE: You don't have to explain. When the Pah-wraith was inside me, I could feel its hatred and I knew that no matter what, it couldn't be allowed to win. Even if it meant I had to die. You did the right thing. 
[Promenade]
(Kira comes out of the Temple.) 
ODO: How was the prayer service? 
KIRA: To tell you the truth, I didn't pay that much attention. I'm still trying to make sense of everything that happened. Of all the people on this station, the Prophets chose me. I'm not sure I know why I deserve that honour. 
ODO: Perhaps that's why you were chosen. You have faith and humility. 
KIRA: I heard that you told the Captain that I was willing to give my life to serve the Prophets. I appreciate that you respect my beliefs. 
ODO: Just the same, I wouldn't have minded if the Prophets had chosen someone else. 
KIRA: I have to go. I'll drop by Security after I take the Kai to her shuttle. 
[Corridor]
WINN: The Emissary couldn't escort me himself? 
KIRA: He's with his son. 
WINN: I would think he'd want to thank me. 
KIRA: For what? 
WINN: I prevented the destruction of this station. I saved the Emissary's life and the life of his son. 
KIRA: Don't pretend you did it for the Captain. 
WINN: I did it for Bajor. If you haven't heard, the floodwaters have receded and the earthquakes have stopped. 
KIRA: And you're going to take the credit for that? 
WINN: I take it as a sign I did the right thing. 
KIRA: You defied the will of the Prophets, and you did it because you couldn't stand the fact that a human, an infidel, had a stronger faith than you. The Emissary was willing to sacrifice his own son to serve the Prophets. 
WINN: My faith is as pure as the Emissary's. 
KIRA: I think you're confusing faith with ambition. 
WINN: I'm not confusing anything, child. You are. The Prophets chose you as their instrument. That doesn't mean you can speak for them. 
KIRA: Because of your interference, the reckoning was stopped. The Evil still exists, And I'm not sure if even the Prophets know what that will mean for Bajor. 

