Episode Number: 434
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Whispers
Whispers
Stardate: 47552.1
Original Airdate: 7 Feb, 1994
[Runabout]
(WHOOSH and through the wormhole) 
O'BRIEN: Computer, set heading one four zero mark three two. 
COMPUTER: Course laid in. 
O'BRIEN: Maximum warp. Engage. Time to Parada system? 
COMPUTER: One hour, fourteen minutes. 
O'BRIEN: Open a new file, computer. O'Brien, personal log, stardate 47581.2. I've got to try to set the record straight about the last fifty two hours. I don't know who's going to hear this. I don't even know if I'll be alive by the time this log is recovered. I figure they'll be coming after me. If I'm right about this whole thing, they won't want me to warn the Paradas. Coffee, Jamaican blend, double strong, double sweet. I wish I could tell you who they are. That's part of the puzzle I haven't figured out yet. Part of the puzzle, hell. None of this whole damn thing makes any sense. I'm trying to remember the first time I noticed that things were wrong. It seems to me it was, yeah. 
[O'Brien's bedroom]
O'BRIEN [OC]: It had to be the first morning after I got back to the station. 
(He reaches for Keiko but she's not there.) 
[O'Brien's quarters]
(Keiko and Molly are having breakfast.) 
O'BRIEN: What are you two doing up so early? 
KEIKO: I had a lot of work to catch up on at school. Thought I'd get an early start. 
O'BRIEN: At five-thirty in the morning? Coffee, Jamaican blend, double strong, double sweet. 
KEIKO: I have a dozen essays to read. 
O'BRIEN: Did you have sweet dreams, darling? 
MOLLY: Go away. 
O'BRIEN: Don't I get my morning kiss? 
MOLLY: No. 
(Molly leaves) 
O'BRIEN: What did I do to deserve that? 
KEIKO: It's just a phase, Miles. She doesn't mean it. 
O'BRIEN: Huh? 
KEIKO: Don't let it bother you. 
O'BRIEN: What time did you get to bed last night? 
KEIKO: I don't know. Late. I didn't want to wake you. 
O'BRIEN: I was tired. I guess that trip really took it out of me. 
KEIKO: What did they have you doing? 
O'BRIEN: The Paradas? They put me through basic training on all the security measures they want in place for the peace talks. Odo would have had a field day. I wish he could have been there. 
KEIKO: I'd better get going. 
O'BRIEN: I'll drop Molly at day care on my way to Ops. 
KEIKO: That's okay, I'm taking her with me. Molly? 
O'BRIEN: To school? When you've got all that reading to do? That doesn't make a lot of sense. 
KEIKO: There's something I want to show her. A Vulcan programme that teaches basic problem solving skills. 
O'BRIEN: At five-thirty-five in the morning? 
KEIKO: I want to do it while her mind is fresh. 
O'BRIEN: If you say so. 
KEIKO: See you later. 
[Security office]
(Work is already underway on a wall panel) 
O'BRIEN: What's this? 
DECURTIS: Just getting a head start, Chief 
O'BRIEN: Head start? Everybody seems to be getting a head start on me today. 
DECURTIS: Sir? 
O'BRIEN: DeCurtis, I appreciate your bushy-tailed enthusiasm but I was waiting for Odo to came back from Bajor to do this. We have to realign the entire security net for the peace talks. The Constable might have a few things to say about it all. 
DECURTIS: Commander Sisko didn't feel we should wait for Odo. 
O'BRIEN: Sisko gave you permission to start this without asking with me first? I don't think so. 
DECURTIS: You might want to check with him, sir. I'm only following orders. 
O'BRIEN: I'll check with him all right. 
DECURTIS: Mister O'Brien? (gestures at the panel) 
O'BRIEN: Carry on. 
[Promenade]
(O'Brien spots Keiko talking to Sisko, and hides behind a pillar) 
[Runabout]
O'BRIEN: Computer, how much longer to Parada system? 
COMPUTER: Fifty three minutes. 
O'BRIEN: Direct sensors back toward the wormhole. Scan for other warp signatures on this heading. 
COMPUTER: One warp signature found. 
O'BRIEN: Display. Can you identify? 
COMPUTER: Identification confirmed. Starfleet runabout Mekong. 
O'BRIEN: I figured as much. They'll wait for me to drop out of warp and then. Well, we'll have to cross that bridge when we come to it, won't we. 
COMPUTER: Please restate question. 
O'BRIEN: Disregard, computer. Continue personal log. Okay, so it was all a little curious but who could've guessed at that point 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN [OC]: I mean, the way they were acting, they might've been trying to pull off one of those surprise parties that I can't stand, only my birthday's not until September, and believe me, as it turned out, I had nothing else to celebrate. 
BASHIR: Ah, there he is now. I've been waiting for you, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: What is it, Julian. 
BASHIR: No excuses this time. 
O'BRIEN: Excuses? 
BASHIR: I'd like you in my office in an hour. 
O'BRIEN: For what? 
BASHIR: Your physical. You can't put this off any longer. 
O'BRIEN: Look, this isn't a good day. 
BASHIR: It's a perfect day. Commander Sisko has arranged to have you covered and 
O'BRIEN: What are you doing going to the Commander about my check-up? 
BASHIR: Because this has been. I just know how you feel about 
O'BRIEN: Forget it. I've got things to do. 
BASHIR: I'm afraid I'll have to insist. If I have to order you as your superior officer, I will. 
SISKO: Is there a problem? 
BASHIR: Mister O'Brien says he's unavailable for a physical. 
SISKO: Make yourself available, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Commander. 
SISKO: Doctor Bashir's annual report on the senior staff is due next week at Starfleet. We've all had to go through this. 
O'BRIEN: Fine. Fine, I'll be there in an hour. 
(Bashir leaves) 
O'BRIEN: Commander, can I talk to you for a minute? 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: Ensign DeCurtis mentioned to me that you were a little upset. 
O'BRIEN: Not upset, exactly. 
SISKO: No, no, you had every right to be. I'm sorry I assigned him before advising you. I guess I dropped the ball on that one. 
O'BRIEN: Well, I guess I just felt a little left out of the loop, you know. 
SISKO: Understood. I've gone through your reports on the Paradas. They seem unusually preoccupied with security. 
O'BRIEN: They may be a little paranoid, but I suppose we would be too if we'd been engaged in a civil war for twelve years. 
SISKO: Anything else I should know about them? Any unusual protocols we should observe when they get here? 
O'BRIEN: No, nothing too out of the ordinary. It's all pretty much in my report. 
SISKO: Now, tell me something that's not in the report. 
O'BRIEN: Sir? 
SISKO: You know, the kind of things we don't include in reports but might help me in these talks. 
O'BRIEN: Well, I'd have to give it some thought. There was one thing I noticed. I don't know if it means anything or not, but the Paradas have an odour from some kind of skin excretions, I'd guess. It changes with their moods. When they're upset, it can get pretty strong actually. 
SISKO: I'll try not to get them upset. 
O'BRIEN: Good idea. 
SISKO: Their leaders have been in regular contact with us. I've assured them that we'll be following all of their security recommendations to the letter. 
O'BRIEN: I'll see to that. 
SISKO: Well, I certainly want you to check everything before they get here, but the upfront work can be done by the Engineering crews. I have bigger problems for you. 
O'BRIEN: Bigger? 
SISKO: All three upper pylons are down again. 
O'BRIEN: That's impossible. I went over that repair work when I got back. The pressure locks seemed to be at maximum efficiency. 
SISKO: You'd better check again. We had to tow a Bolian freighter to a lower dock this morning. 
O'BRIEN: It can't be anything that serious. I rebuilt that entire subsystem myself. I'll get on it right away. 
SISKO: After your physical. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. Oh, by the way, I noticed you and Keiko out in front of the school this morning, talking. Is there anything wrong? 
SISKO: Oh, Jake is having some problems with his grades. 
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry to hear that, sir. Keiko's very fond of the boy. I'm sure she'll work that much harder to help him. 
SISKO: I'm sure she will. 
[Infirmary]
O'BRIEN: Are we nearly finished? I believe you've poked into every orifice of my body and created a few new ones. 
BASHIR: Any dizziness? Oversleeping? Lack of energy? Euphoria? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, all of them. Especially euphoria. Lots of euphoria. 
BASHIR: Seriously. 
O'BRIEN: Look, if you're determined to keep me here until you find something wrong with me, I'll see if I can't grow you a hangnail. 
BASHIR: Eye problems? Hearing? Headaches? 
O'BRIEN: Headache. There you go. In fact, I'm getting a very bad one right now. 
BASHIR: Short temper. Flies off the handle under the slightest provocation. Perfectly normal behaviour. 
O'BRIEN: I'm glad you're enjoying this. 
BASHIR: Sorry. I know how you feel about doctors. 
O'BRIEN: It's not doctors I have problems with. 
O'BRIEN + BASHIR: It's you, Julian. 
BASHIR: Well, your sense of humour seems normal enough 
O'BRIEN: I don't have a sense of humour. 
BASHIR: Cough. How's the sex life? 
O'BRIEN: I don't have a sense of humour. 
BASHIR: Cough. Everything all right in that department? 
O'BRIEN: That department is none of Starfleet's business, or yours. 
BASHIR: Mother and father in good health? 
O'BRIEN: Oh, come on, Julian. You knew my mother died two years ago. 
BASHIR: Did I? 
O'BRIEN: You don't remember me telling you when my father remarried last spring? Me blathering on about this woman I've never met before? 
BASHIR: Of course. Now I remember. 
O'BRIEN: Are you finished? 
BASHIR: Not quite. I just have one or two more tests to run. 
O'BRIEN: This is insane! I haven't had a physical take this long since I was born. Look, unless I'm dying or something, I think it's about time. (pause) Wait. That's it, is it? I mean, there is something wrong with me. That's why everyone seems so strange. 
BASHIR: Relax, Chief. I'm giving you a clean bill of health. You can get dressed. 
[Promenade]
JAKE: Hey, Chief! 
O'BRIEN: Hello, Jake. 
JAKE: I need a favour. 
O'BRIEN: Sure. What is it? 
JAKE: I'm working on a subspace transceiver for my science project but I can't seem to figure out how to get the emitter crystal to work. 
O'BRIEN: A subspace transceiver model. I used to build them when I was your age. I'll be glad to help. 
JAKE: You don't think it's a conflict of interest or anything, you being married to the teacher? 
O'BRIEN: We'll have to clear it with Keiko but I don't think she'll mind. Besides, it's a chance to help get those grades of yours back up, right? 
JAKE: My grades are great. I just want to keep them that way. 
[Airlock]
O'BRIEN [OC]: Sisko was telling the truth about one thing. The upper pylons had failed again. It didn't make any sense, because the new pressure locks I'd installed seemed to be working just fine, so it had to be an entirely new problem. I realised it wasn't going to be a quick matter to track it down after all. And I couldn't help thinking how this was going to keep me occupied while the security arrangements for the Paradas were underway. 
[Corridor]
O'BRIEN: How's it coming, DeCurtis? 
DECURTIS: Chief. I thought you had your hands full with the upper pylons. 
O'BRIEN: I do, but I thought I'd take a break and check in on your progress. 
DECURTIS: Everything's on schedule here. We made a complete sweep of all the quarters assigned to the Paradas. 
O'BRIEN: Good. Open it up. I'd like to look it over myself. 
DECURTIS: I can't, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: That's an order. 
DECURTIS: Sir, the security seal was activated the minute we left. Only Major Kira has the access codes. 
O'BRIEN: O'Brien to Kira. 
KIRA [OC]: Go ahead, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: I'd like the access codes to the Parada quarters. 
SISKO [OC]: Chief, what are you doing down there? 
O'BRIEN: Commander, I spent the last week going over these arrangements with the Paradas. I really need to 
SISKO [OC]: I want those upper pylons operational, Chief. That's your priority. Understood? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
(When O'Brien has left, DeCurtis opens the door and goes in. But O'Brien sees from around the corner.) 
[Promenade]
JAKE: Chief, is this the right inverter for the subspace transceiver? 
O'BRIEN: Where'd you get this? I haven't seen one of these since I was a kid. 
JAKE: I replicated it. I found the design in a really, really, old data file in the library programme. 
O'BRIEN: Really, really, old? 
JAKE: I didn't mean 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry about it. Why don't you come by my place after dinner. We'll see if we can add the rest of the pieces. 
JAKE: Oh, that's great. 
O'BRIEN: Jake, did anything unusual happen here at the station while I was in the Gamma Quadrant last? 
KIRA: (on the upper level) Jake. Your Dad's been looking for you. I think he's back in your quarters. It may be important. 
JAKE: See you later. 
(Jake leaves) 
KIRA: Everything under control, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: All under control, Major. 
[Airlock]
O'BRIEN [OC]: I worked on the pylon controls the better part of the day. Needle in a haystack wouldn't do this job justice. When I finally found the crack in the RF power conduit, I couldn't imagine how it could've occurred so deep in the system, unless someone had broken it deliberately. 
[O'Brien's quarters]
KEIKO: Hard day? 
O'BRIEN: You could say that. 
KEIKO: You want to lie down before dinner? 
O'BRIEN: No, Jake's coming over in a little while. I promised to help him with his science project. 
KEIKO: Er, Commander Sisko just called. Jake can't make it tonight. He isn't feeling well. 
O'BRIEN: Really? He seemed okay a few hours ago. 
KEIKO: Well, you know how it is with kids. He probably just ate too much junk on the Promenade after school. 
O'BRIEN: Where's Molly? 
KEIKO: She's over at the Fredricksons spending the night. 
O'BRIEN: So there's just the two of us, then. 
KEIKO: We'd better eat while the food's still warm. 
O'BRIEN: The replicator can keep it warm, and I can keep you warm. 
(He kisses her, but she doesn't respond) 
O'BRIEN: What's the problem? 
KEIKO: No problem. I'm just not in the mood. I had a hard day too. 
O'BRIEN: Okay, we'll eat. What is it? 
KEIKO: Fricandeau stew. 
O'BRIEN: But you don't like Fricandeau stew. 
KEIKO: You do. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, but 
KEIKO: I just thought you'd appreciate one of your favourite meals. I know how you hate all that terrible food when you're away. A little endive salad, sweet flan for dessert. 
O'BRIEN: How thoughtful of you. You're not having any? 
KEIKO: I just feel like having salad. 
O'BRIEN: Not hungry? 
KEIKO: I had a late lunch. 
(O'Brien picks at the stew) 
KEIKO: How is it? 
(He can't bring himself to eat any of it.) 
O'BRIEN: You know, I think I will lie down. 
KEIKO: But you haven't eaten a bite. 
O'BRIEN: I just don't seem to have an appetite right now. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: I don't know if there was anything wrong with the stew or not. When I went back later to check, she'd already put it into the disposal. But all I could think of, as I looked at her, was that this was not my Keiko. 
[Runabout]
O'BRIEN: Computer, open O'Brien personal log. Play back last sentence. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: But all I could think of, as I looked at her, was that this was not my Keiko. 
O'BRIEN: You're right. She wasn't. Continue log. I didn't get much sleep that night. 
[O'Brien's quarters]
O'BRIEN [OC]: I waited for Keiko, or whoever she was, to go to bed and I started my search. I had no idea what I was looking for. Something odd, something not quite normal, anything to explain what might be going on. 
COMPUTER: Scan complete. No unknown microorganisms detected. 
O'BRIEN: Check for traces of any chemical agents with bioactive properties. 
COMPUTER: No chemical agents with bioactive properties detected. 
O'BRIEN: Any unknown chemical agents? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
O'BRIEN: Access internal EM sensor grid. 
COMPUTER: Ready. 
O'BRIEN: Scan for any evidence of sub-harmonic transmissions. 
COMPUTER: Scan complete. No sub-harmonic transmissions detected. 
O'BRIEN: Any unusual neural wave patterns. 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
O'BRIEN: Any telepathic activity on board. 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
O'BRIEN: Computer, display all arriving vessels from stardate 47550 through 47571. 
(
It does
, first entry USS Yorktown from Theta Omicron IV, Captain H Zimmerman. There's also Captains J Swift and G Gulliver, Gump, JJ Adams, W Clinton, et al) 
O'BRIEN: None from the Gamma Quadrant? 
COMPUTER: No ships arrived from the Gamma Quadrant within time parameters requested. 
O'BRIEN: Coffee, Jamaican blend, double strong, double sweet. You're drinking too much of this stuff, O'Brien. Anything to stay alert, O'Brien. Okay, computer, play back station logs chronologically, starting with stardate 47550. 
COMPUTER: Identify which officer's logs are to be included. 
O'BRIEN: All officers. 
COMPUTER: Vocal or transcribed? 
O'BRIEN: Vocal. 
SISKO [OC]: Station log, stardate 47552.9. Admiral Gupta has arrived to personally assess the Cardassian movements along the border. Several Federation colonies in the demilitarised zone have complained of 
(later) 
DAX [OC]: discovered a new lifeform previously unreported. We have tentatively classified it as a protozoic species but still have to 
SISKO [OC]: lost in a shuttlepod somewhere in the vicinity of the third moon of Bajor Seven. We have two runabouts 
KIRA [OC]: a request by the Chamber of Ministers that I find absolutely ridiculous. They have actually requested that we begin to screen all arriving 
DECURTIS [OC]: were completed at seventeen-hundred hours and seem to be functioning with no further difficulties. A level one diagnostic 
SISKO [OC]: and the Admiral seemed satisfied that the Cardassians would not violate the treaty. 
COMPUTER: Access denied. 
O'BRIEN: Denied? Access denied to what? 
COMPUTER: Station logs after stardate 47569.4 are restricted. 
O'BRIEN: The day I got back. Describe the restrictions. 
COMPUTER: Access restricted to level one security clearance. 
O'BRIEN: I am level one. 
COMPUTER: Please enter security verification. 
(O'Brien epsilon alpha Molly ?? seven) 
COMPUTER: Access denied. 
[Ops]
(O'Brien taps a console then goes down into the pit and takes off an access cover) 
DECURTIS: Anything I can help you with, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: No, I'm just making sure these upper pylons are in working condition by morning. 
DECURTIS: You're an inspiration to us all. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: There were several traps laid into the computer subroutine, no doubt to let someone know if I'd penetrated their security lockout. I wasn't fooled for a minute and released the protected files without any problem. 
[O'Brien's quarters]
O'BRIEN [OC]: What I found in those hidden logs didn't answer all my questions, but it sure as hell confirmed what I'd been afraid of. They were analysing and reanalysing everything I had put into my report about Paradan security. They'd even broken into my personal logs to see what they could find in there. I hope they enjoyed reading the sexy letters to my wife. There were several entries by Sisko about secured messages from the Parada system but no indication what those messages were about. Maybe they were afraid I'd get into their files even with the security lockout. Smart people. 
[Airlock]
(A transport has arrived) 
ODO: Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Odo, we've got a problem. I have to talk to you. 
ODO: It's good to see you too. 
[Corridor]
O'BRIEN: Aside from Jake, not one of them was, I don't know, real. I'm not sure who we can trust on the station at this point. 
ODO: Do any of them know you're suspicious? 
O'BRIEN: Probably. I've asked a few questions, been a few places that might have tipped them off. They'll be keeping close tabs on me. I'd call Starfleet but what could I tell them? My wife doesn't seem like my wife? Sisko's been making security arrangements without consulting me? 
ODO: They might even call Commander Sisko and start asking questions about you. 
O'BRIEN: That's what I was afraid of. 
ODO: When are the Paradas due? 
O'BRIEN: Thirty eight hours. 
ODO: I don't want them coming anywhere near this place until we get this cleared up. 
O'BRIEN: Agreed. 
ODO: Go on about your business. Don't do anything to get their attention. In the meantime, I'll do some investigating. If I can confirm your suspicions, we can go to Starfleet and the Bajoran authorities at the same time. 
O'BRIEN: I'm glad you're back, Odo. 
ODO: We'll get to the bottom of this. 
[O'Brien's quarters]
O'BRIEN [OC]: I felt better than I had for a long time. I finally had an ally. Now, all I had to do was wait. I like to think I'm a man with many talents, but waiting isn't one of them. I had to cover my bets, prepare myself for whatever might happen next. I still had a few tricks up my sleeve. 
(He puts together a little device) 
[Quark's cafe]
QUARK: The odds are against you, O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Against me? What are you talking about? 
QUARK: You know what I'm talking about. You look tired. Have you been getting enough sleep? 
(O'Brien grabs Quark's jacket) 
O'BRIEN: What are you talking about, Quark? 
QUARK: Racquetball. The rematch with Bashir next week. We never finished the first one, remember? My, we are jumpy, aren't we. 
O'BRIEN: Change the subject. 
QUARK: Fine, we'll change the subject. So, tell me about the Paradas. They're going to be here, when, tomorrow? 
O'BRIEN: Why do you want to know anything about the Paradas? 
QUARK: It's always good business to know about new customers before they walk in your door. 
O'BRIEN: Which Rule of Acquisition is that? 
QUARK: Oh, one of the high numbers. One ninety four, I think. 
O'BRIEN: Well, you'll have to find out about the Paradas from someone else. 
ODO [OC]: Odo to O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Go ahead. 
ODO [OC]: Can I see you in my office? 
O'BRIEN: On my way. 
[Security office]
ODO: I see what you mean. 
O'BRIEN: What did you find out? 
ODO: Sit down. How much do you know about the Paradan rebels? 
O'BRIEN: Don't ask me to explain the politics of the situation, but I know they've been fighting the government forces for twelve years. Why? 
ODO: I'm just trying to understand the players involved here. 
O'BRIEN: Odo, Sisko's logs indicate that secret messages have been coming from the Parada System. Could those messages have been from the rebels? 
ODO: As a matter of fact, they were. 
O'BRIEN: That's already a breach of the security agreement we made with the Paradan government, and it's a good enough reason for us to cancel these peace talks. 
ODO: That still might be premature. 
O'BRIEN: What are you talking about? We've got more than enough (pause) They got to you. 
ODO: Don't be ridiculous. I'm just trying to 
O'BRIEN: No, they did. They got to you. 
(Sisko and Kira enter, armed, and Bashir with a hypospray) 
SISKO: All right, let's have a little talk. 
O'BRIEN: Who the hell are you? 
KIRA: We don't want to hurt you. 
BASHIR: Here, this'll help you relax. 
(O'Brien throws his flash grenade down, blinding everyone as he grabs Kira's phaser and dashes out);
O'BRIEN: Thanks just the same. 
[Promenade]
(O'Brien shoots the Bajoran and Starfleet security men, then runs through the airlock) 
[Corridor]
O'BRIEN: Computer, lock on to my comm. badge. Initiate emergency transport to runabout Rio Grande. 
COMPUTER: Unable to complete request. Please contact station commander for assistance. 
(O'Brien throws his comm. badge away and runs. Around a corner, a forcefield blocks him. He goes to a panel and opens it) 
O'BRIEN: Making it tough for me, huh? Fine. You want forcefields, I'll give you forcefields. There. Now, you want to get me, you'll have to release them all. 
(They do) 
O'BRIEN: Thank you. 
[Habitat corridor]
(Jake steps out of a room as O'Brien runs past) 
O'BRIEN: Jake, are you okay? 
JAKE: Yeah. 
O'BRIEN: Good. Listen to me. Something isn't normal round here. Your dad, the others, something's happened to them. You and I are the only ones who can help. 
(Jake uses a comm. panel) 
JAKE: Jake Sisko to Security. He's here. Level H two, section five. It'll be okay. Just surrender to them and you'll be fine. 
(Then Jake runs off. O'Brien gets into a conduit) 
[Conduit]
(Security have arrived) 
ODO: (by the conduit grill) Spread out. Check all quarters. Advise people to stay where they are and not to let anyone in. 
SECURITY: Yes, sir. 
(O'Brien starts climbing an access ladder and drops his phaser. He reaches a higher level and crawls along another conduit to) 
[Cargo bay]
(O'Brien climbs down a handy staircase of cases and uses the cargo transporter to beam into) 
[Runabout]
SISKO [on monitor]: Shut down your engines. 
O'BRIEN: Sorry, Commander. I have no intention of doing that. 
SISKO [on monitor]: You will not be allowed to leave. I repeat, shut down your engines now. 
O'BRIEN: If you check your systems, you'll find that the mooring clamps are already unlocked and your tractor beams are offline. O'Brien out. Shields up! 
(The runabout leaves the station, and DS9 fires at him twice) 
O'BRIEN: Are the shields holding, Computer. 
COMPUTER: Shields at seventy-one percent. 
(Boom) 
COMPUTER: Warning. Shields at forty nine percent. 
O'BRIEN: Transfer emergency life support power to shield generators. 
COMPUTER: Transfer complete. 
O'BRIEN: Shield status. 
COMPUTER: Shields at ninety three percent. 
(Boom) 
O'BRIEN: Full impulse, heading four one mark three three-zero. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. 
O'BRIEN: Computer, open a subspace channel to Starbase four zero one. Priority one, Admiral Rollman. 
COMPUTER: Stand by. 
(A silver haired woman appears on the monitor) 
O'BRIEN: Admiral. Miles O'Brien, Chief of Operations, Deep Space Nine. 
ROLLMAN [on monitor]: I know who you are. 
O'BRIEN: Admiral, I must apprise you of an emergency situation on the station. There's been some sort of takeover, a conspiracy. I believe it has something to do with the Paradan peace talks. 
ROLLMAN [on monitor]: Listen to me very carefully. Return to DS Nine immediately. 
O'BRIEN: Admiral, you don't understand. I believe Commander Sisko and all of the senior officers have fallen under the influence of something that 
ROLLMAN [on monitor]: Turn the ship around and go back. You will not be harmed. 
(O'Brien cuts transmission) 
O'BRIEN [OC]: It seemed almost unbelievable to me. Had someone or something started to infiltrate all of Starfleet? 
O'BRIEN: Computer, new heading. One eight zero mark three one. To the wormhole. 
(WHOOSH) 
O'BRIEN: Coffee, Jamaican blend, double strong, double sweet. Time to Parada system, Computer. 
COMPUTER: One minute, twenty seconds. 
O'BRIEN: How much lead time do we have on the Mekong. 
COMPUTER: At current speeds, seven minutes, four seconds. 
O'BRIEN: That'll disappear in a hurry once we drop out of warp. At least I get to choose where they catch up. Computer, identify the largest planet in the Parada system. 
COMPUTER: Parada Four. 
O'BRIEN: Adjust course to approach Parada Four. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. 
O'BRIEN: How many moons around Parada Four? 
COMPUTER: Seven. 
O'BRIEN: Lucky seven. Display coordinates. 
COMPUTER: Approaching the Parada system. 
O'BRIEN: Drop to impulse. Status of Mekong? 
COMPUTER: Mekong has dropped out of warp and has adjusted course to identical heading. 
O'BRIEN: Perfect. How much time have they made up on us? 
COMPUTER: At current speed, the Mekong is two minutes, one second behind this vessel. 
O'BRIEN: Adjust speed to let them catch up to us in thirty seconds. 
COMPUTER: Dropping to point four impulse. 
O'BRIEN: Come on, I'm waiting for you. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Entering polar magnetic field. Sensors will be nonfunctional for twenty seven seconds. Switch to manual navigation. 
O'BRIEN: Switching. Computer, full impulse, engage. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. Manual navigation in effect. 
O'BRIEN: Shut down all engines, all main power systems. Maintain silent running status. 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, where did I go? Now you see me, now you don't. What's it going to be, fellas? I can play hide and seek with the best of them. No time for games, huh? Computer, identify Mekong's new heading. 
COMPUTER: Four one mark two zero one. 
O'BRIEN: Probable destination? 
COMPUTER: Parada Two. 
O'BRIEN: Parada Two? What's on Parada Two? 
COMPUTER: Specify parameters. 
O'BRIEN: Computer, monitor all transporter activity to and from the Mekong. 
COMPUTER: Mekong transporter has been energised. 
O'BRIEN: They beamed to the surface? 
COMPUTER: Confirmed. 
O'BRIEN: How many people? 
COMPUTER: Three people. 
O'BRIEN: Anyone left on board? 
COMPUTER: Negative. 
O'BRIEN: Put us on a course for Parada Two. Take us into synchronous orbit above their location on the surface. 
[Parada tunnel]
(O'Brien beams down into a tunnel cut through rock, and uses the tricorder to find his way to) 
[Chamber]
O'BRIEN: Having a little unscheduled negotiation with the rebels, are we? 
SISKO: You don't understand. Put down your weapons and we'll explain. 
O'BRIEN: No, I've got a better idea. You put down yours first. Do it. 
(Sisko and Kira comply) 
O'BRIEN: You too. 
(An alien throws down his weapon) 
COUTU: Everything you need to understand is behind this door. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, like a squadron of rebels maybe, huh? 
COUTU: No. If you'd just permit me 
O'BRIEN: Just stay where you are. 
KIRA: Listen to him. He's not your enemy. We're not your enemy. 
O'BRIEN: No? 
COUTU: Please. This will explain everything. 
O'BRIEN: I don't want to hurt you. 
(Another Paradan shoots O'Brien as Coutu opens the door behind him) 
SISKO: Doctor, we need you! 
(Bashir comes out of the room to tend the wounded, and a battered O'Brien comes out to look out at his double.) 
O'BRIEN: He's perfect. He looks just like me. 
KIRA: Apparently he thought he was you. 
COUTU: No doubt they thought that would make him more convincing. We believe there was some triggering device programmed into him that would have taken over during the peace talks. The government scientists have learned how to do remarkable things with replicants. 
O'BRIEN: What was he programmed to do? 
COUTU: We're not entirely sure. Assassinate someone at the peace talks, we think. Perhaps our entire delegation. 
SISKO: They were tipped off by one of the informants in their government. There was a rumour you'd been abducted and replaced by a replicant. 
COUTU: We've had people looking for you ever since. 
BASHIR: There was no way to prove he wasn't you. He passed a physical exam with flying colours, and he sure knew his way around the station. 
O'BRIEN: I had more wires attached to my head than you can count. Now I know why. 
KIRA: We were trying to shut him out of every sensitive security area while they were searching for you. He must have wondered what the hell was going on with all of us. 
BASHIR: By the time we learned of your rescue, he'd already gotten away from us and was on his way here. 
COUTU: I wonder why he was coming back? 
O'BRIEN: If it were me, I'd be trying to warn somebody there was something wrong at the station. 
SISKO: Maybe in a strange sort of way, he was just trying to be a hero. 
FAKE O'BRIEN: Keiko. 
O'BRIEN: What about her? 
FAKE O'BRIEN: Tell her I love (dies) 

