Episode Number: 525
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - A Time To Stand
A Time To Stand
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 29 Sep, 1997
In memory of 
Brandon Tartikoff
Last time on Star Trek Deep Space Nine. 
O'BRIEN: More Jem'Hadar ships come through the wormhole every week. 
WORF: It must stop. 
SISKO: It's going to stop. 
O'BRIEN: How do we keep them out? 
SISKO: We're going to mine the entrance to the wormhole, prevent the Dominion from bringing any more reinforcements to Cardassia. 
WEYOUN: Either you remove the mines or we will take this station from you and remove them ourselves. 
(DS9 is attacked.) 
SISKO: Mister Worf, all weapons fire at will. 
DUKAT: I've been waiting for this moment for five years. 
NOG: We've lost main power to the shields. 
WORF: What are your orders, Captain? 
SISKO: We've done all we can here. Notify all remaining Starfleet personnel. We're evacuating the station. 
DAX: I heard you're not coming with us. That you've been assigned to Martok's ship. 
WORF: It might be some time before we see each other again. 
DAX: Worf, we might never see each other again. 
(Kira runs the sabotage programme.) 
KIRA: Dukat wanted the station back, he can have it. 
And now, the continuation.
[Bridge]
(The fleet has been reduced and battered by war. An Excelsior class is being towed. Many still have fires raging.) 
SISKO: Cadet. 
NOG: Long range scanners show no sign of Jem'Hadar ships. Looks like they've broken off their pursuit. 
O'BRIEN: I guess they got tired of looking at our backs. Three months of bloody slaughter and what have we got to show for it? Not a damn thing. Engage, retreat, engage, retreat. Just once I would've liked to have gotten a look at their backs. 
SISKO: Chief, that's enough. 
O'BRIEN: Sorry, sir. Nothing a little sleep won't cure. 
DAX: We could all use some sleep. What has it been, seventy eight hours? 
NOG: Shouldn't we have heard something from the Seventh Fleet by now? 
DAX: I wouldn't worry just yet. The Tyra system is far enough away that it'll be a day or two before we get any message. 
NOG: You think they can stop the Dominion? 
O'BRIEN: Damn right they can. Somebody has to. 
[Medical supply room]
GARAK: Ah, there you are. I'd just about given up hope, Doctor. I would think that all those lunches we've shared would've entitled me to preferential treatment. 
BASHIR: Look, I have twelve wounded officers and crewmen out there, all of whom are in a lot worse shape than you, Garak. 
GARAK: Well, if you're trying to cheer me up, it's working. I feel better already. 
BASHIR: What happened? 
GARAK: I was studying some star charts for Captain Sisko during the last assault when I had a sudden and rather violent encounter with a bulkhead. 
BASHIR: You'll live. 
GARAK: I wish I shared your confidence. I'm sure my head will heal, but the way this war is going I wouldn't bet on any of us living to a ripe old age. 
BASHIR: I admit the odds are not good, but they could be worse. 
GARAK: Let me guess. You've used that genetically enhanced brain of yours to calculate our chances of survival. 
BASHIR: It really wasn't that difficult. I simply started with a binomial 
GARAK: I'm really not interested, Doctor. Ever since it's become public knowledge that you're genetically engineered, you've used every opportunity to show off. 
BASHIR: I have nothing to hide anymore. I might as well use what I have. 
GARAK: Well, what are our chances? Over fifty percent? 
BASHIR: Thirty two point seven. 
GARAK: I'm sorry I asked. You're certain about that figure? 
BASHIR: Do you want me to take you through the entire set of calculations? 
GARAK: Not really. Genetically engineered, indeed. 
BASHIR: Excuse me? 
GARAK: Well look at you. You act as if you haven't a care in the world. It's exactly that kind of smug, superior attitude that makes people like you so unpopular. 
BASHIR: Are you trying to insulting me? 
GARAK: A thirty two point seven percent chance of survival. I call that insulting. 
BASHIR: Don't take it so personally, Garak. It's strictly a matter of mathematics. 
GARAK: No, it's strictly a matter of our lives. You're not genetically engineered. You're a Vulcan. 
BASHIR: If I'm a Vulcan, then how do you explain my boyish smile? 
GARAK: Not so boyish anymore, Doctor. 
[Mess hall]
DAX: So where do you think Starfleet will be sending us next? 
SISKO: I don't know. But if I have anything to say about the matter, we'll be going right back to the front lines. 
MARTOK: Well said, Captain. And my ship will be at your side. 
DAX: Worf! 
(She leaps into his arms for a kiss.) 
MARTOK: Tell her. 
DAX: Tell me what? 
WORF: It can wait. 
MARTOK: No, it cannot. Raktajino. It's been weighing heavily on his mind. 
DAX: What is it, Worf? What's wrong? 
WORF: It is about our wedding. 
DAX: You're getting cold feet? 
WORF: You have scheduled the ritual sacrifice of the targ to occur after the wedding feast has been served. 
DAX: We haven't seen each other for five weeks and that's the first thing you say to me? 
WORF: We agreed it would be a traditional ceremony. 
DAX: Okay, have it your way. First we'll shed blood and then we'll feast. 
WORF: As it should be. 
MARTOK: He has been unable to talk about anything else for days. 
DAX: He's such a worrier. 
SISKO: Take my advice, old man. A small wedding is the way to go. 
DAX: You get married the way you want, and I'll get married the way I want. I'll see you later, Captain 
SISKO: Try not to break any bones. 
(Dax and Worf leave.) 
MARTOK: Now that that's settled, I'm going to take care of this. Klingons make great warriors but terrible doctors. 
BASHIR: Captain. 
MARTOK: Just the man I wanted to see. 
BASHIR: We've been ordered to report to Starbase three seven five for reassignment. 
SISKO: Something else, Doctor? 
BASHIR: I have news of the Seventh Fleet. 
SISKO: Go on. 
BASHIR: Only fourteen ships made it back to our lines. 
MARTOK: Fourteen out of a hundred and twelve. 
BASHIR: We can't keep taking these kinds of losses, sir, not if we expect to win this 
SISKO: Thank you, Doctor. That will be all. 
BASHIR: I'll take a look at that arm now. 
(Bashir and Sisko leave. Sisko thumps the table, shattering it's glass top.) 
Permanent Documentation File, Dukat, SG. Each day brings reports of new victories. The war continues to go well. The enemy is retreating on almost all fronts. It's only a matter of time before the Federation collapses and Earth becomes another conquered planet under Dominion rule. All in all, it's a good time for Cardassia, and the Dominion. 
[Wardroom]
WEYOUN: My dear Major Kira, you have no idea how it pleases me to hear you say that. Dukat, the Major has just given me the most wonderful news. Bajorans are returning to the station. 
DUKAT: I'm well aware of it. 
WEYOUN: Then I'm sure you share my delight in knowing that life here is returning to normal. The shops are reopening, the Promenade is abuzz with activity once again. The Habitat ring echoes with the laughter of happy children. 
DAMAR: I've doubled security patrols throughout the station. 
WEYOUN: Are such precautions really necessary? 
DUKAT: I've found that one can't be too careful when dealing with the Bajorans. 
KIRA: What's wrong, Dukat? Afraid we'll take the station away from you again? 
DAMAR: You're welcome to try. 
WEYOUN: Come now, come now, there's no need for this petty bickering. We're all friends here. 
KIRA: Are we. 
WEYOUN: Of course we are. And if you have any suggestions, Major, feel free to bring them to me at any time. 
KIRA: Fine. We'd like the station's Bajoran security force reinstated. 
DAMAR: I suppose you want us to give them back their weapons as well. 
KIRA: That's right. 
DUKAT: The station no longer requires a Bajoran security force. Our troops can handle any problems that might arise. 
KIRA: The Federation and Bajor always shared equal responsibility for station security. I thought you said that we would have the same arrangement with the Dominion. After all, we are all friends here, aren't we? 
WEYOUN: Perhaps you should reconsider your decision. 
DUKAT: The order stands. You may trust the Bajorans, but I don't. And until they earn my trust, I prefer to keep them unarmed. And if you were in my position, Major, you would do exactly the same thing. 
WEYOUN: Perhaps it would be best to let the matter rest for a while. I'm sure in time, We'll be able to resolve all these minor problems to our mutual satisfaction. 
KIRA: I'll remember you said that. 
WEYOUN: I'm sure you will. One last thing. Odo. 
KIRA: What about him? 
WEYOUN: Is he aware that I'm doing everything I can to strengthen the bond between the Dominion and the Bajoran people? 
KIRA: Why don't you ask him yourself? 
WEYOUN: No, no, I wouldn't want to bother him. Good day, Major. 
(Kira leaves.) 
DUKAT: She's a fascinating woman, isn't she? 
WEYOUN: I wouldn't know. But I do know we need her as an ally. 
DAMAR: The Bajorans will never be our allies. 
WEYOUN: Out. Don't look at him. I'm telling you to leave. Now! 
(Damar takes his signal from Dukat and leaves.) 
DUKAT: I find him useful. 
WEYOUN: In the future, it might be prudent for you to include me in all decisions relating to station policy. Now, what about the wormhole? You assured me that you would be able to dismantle the minefield within a month. That was two months ago. 
DUKAT: Well, I admit the work is proceeding more slowly than expected, but as you know, these are not ordinary mines. Every time we deactivate or destroy one of them, its neighbour replicates a new one. 
WEYOUN: We have to take down that minefield and reopen the wormhole. 
DUKAT: And we will. But there's no need for panic. We are winning the war. 
WEYOUN: For the moment, yes. But to defeat the Federation, we're going to need reinforcements and new supplies of ketracel-white. Soon. 
DUKAT: Weyoun, I said I will deal with the minefield, and I will. 
[Quark's]
(Cardassians using the facilities, Jem'Hadar just sitting around. Quark goes over to one group.) 
QUARK: Good evening, gentlemen. Once again I see you're at your usual table. It's amazing how many of my customers think of Quark's as their second home. I only wish I had a holo-imager so I could preserve this warm and wonderful moment of camaraderie. Something you could hang on the wall of your barracks. (no response) Have you tried the dabo tables? I'm sure one of my lovely hostesses would be happy to teach you the game. (zilch) I know. A complimentary hour in one of our state-of-the-art holosuites? Whatever your desires, I'm sure we can satisfy them. (a Look) Perhaps another time. Enjoy the evening. 
(Moving away) 
QUARK: Tough crowd. 
KIRA: I'm telling you, Odo, Dukat has only one thing on his mind, and that's revenge. He can't stand the thought that Bajor defeated Cardassia. 
ODO: You think he wants to reopen the labour camps? 
KIRA: Eventually. 
ODO: Well then, I suppose we should be grateful that he has Weyoun looking over his shoulder. 
KIRA: Maybe. Weyoun's a hard one to figure out. I don't really trust him but I trust him more than Dukat. 
ODO: Weyoun knows that it's in the Dominion's best interest to honour its treaty with Bajor. They want to prove to the rest of the Alpha Quadrant that they're true to their word. 
KIRA: Weyoun asked me about you. He seemed very concerned about what you thought of him. 
ODO: I try not to think of him. 
KIRA: He'd be hurt to hear you said that. I'll have to mention it to him. 
ODO: I'm glad you can still smile. 
KIRA: Only when I'm with you. 
ODO: That's kind of you to say. 
KIRA: No, it's true. When I talk to you, things don't seem as bad. When I think of Dukat in the Captain's office, or the fact that the Federation seems to be losing this war and we're here doing nothing. 
ODO: I share your frustration, Major, but right now there's really nothing we can do but bide our time. It's like Captain Sisko said. Bajor must be kept out of the fighting. 
KIRA: And who am I to argue with the Emissary. 
QUARK: (bringing a drink) Thanks for waiting. Things have been a little busier than expected. This one's on the house. 
KIRA: What do you want, Quark? 
QUARK: The usual. Peace, love and understanding. Not to mention a generous profit margin, which I'm happy to say is looking more and more likely. You know, I never expected to say this, but as occupations go, this one's not so bad. 
KIRA: No, I suppose that's true if all you're worried about is a monthly balance sheet. 
QUARK: I'm not just concerned with profit, Major. Look around. Do you see any ghetto fences dividing the Promenade? Or exhausted Bajoran slave labourers sprawled on the ground after a gruelling day in the Ore Processing Centre? Do you hear the cries of starving children? I don't. Now don't get me wrong, I miss the Federation too. All I'm saying is, things could be a lot worse. 
ODO: I hate to say this, but he's right. The Dominion seems determined to prove that it can be a friend to Bajor. 
KIRA: If it's such a good friend, why are no Bajoran security officers on the station? 
[Sisko's office]
(At Starbase 375.) 
ROSS: I'm glad to see you made it back in one piece, Ben. 
SISKO: I was lucky. We lost a lot of good people. 
ROSS: Yes, we did. And we're going to lose a lot more before this is over. I hope you'll find this office satisfactory. 
SISKO: Office? I wasn't aware I'd be needing an office. I thought I was here for an assignment briefing. 
ROSS: I'm afraid you're going to be here longer than you think, Captain. As of right now, you're no longer in command of the Defiant. 
(Later.) 
DAX: Relieved of command? Why? 
SISKO: Admiral Ross didn't say. He did say we'll be getting our new assignment at sixteen hundred hours. 
DAX: Well at least the crew's staying together. We are staying together, aren't we? 
SISKO: You can count on it. 
DAX: So what do you plan on doing the next couple of hours? 
SISKO: I hadn't given it much thought. 
DAX: Maybe now would be a good time to contact your father. 
SISKO: Maybe. 
DAX: Benjamin, you haven't spoken to him for months. And Jake is his grandson. 
SISKO: How do I explain that I evacuated every Federation citizen off Deep Space Nine except his grandson. 
DAX: You'll think of something. You always do. 
(Later) 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: You did what? 
SISKO: Dad, it's not quite as bad as it sounds. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: You mean you didn't leave my grandson at the mercy of a vicious, bloodthirsty enemy? 
SISKO: Well, no, I did. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Then it's certainly just as bad as it sounds. 
SISKO: Dad, it was not my decision. It was Jake's choice to stay behind. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Oh, so now you're going to blame this on Jake. 
SISKO [on monitor]: I'm not blaming Jake. But he's not a child anymore. He's responsible for his own actions. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: I don't care who's responsible. It's wrong and I want him back. 
SISKO: And so do I. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: You think he's all right? 
SISKO: I hope so. I'll bring him back, Dad. I promise. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: When? 
SISKO: That I don't know. It might be a while. I'm about to be given new orders, and I don't know where they're going to send me. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Tell them you want to go get your son. 
SISKO: It's wartime. It's not up to me. I go where I'm sent. How's the restaurant doing? 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: All right. It's been three weeks since I've poisoned anyone. Are things really as bad as the news service claims? 
SISKO: Maybe worse. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Well you certainly know how to comfort a frightened old man. 
SISKO: You didn't raise me to be a liar. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: I raised you to be a chef, for all the good it did me. You know, there's something I just don't understand. You're always telling me that space is big, that it's an endless frontier filled with infinite wonders. 
SISKO: It's true. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: Well if that's the case, you would think it would be more than enough room to allow people to leave each other alone. 
SISKO: It just doesn't work that way. It should, but it doesn't. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: I'd better be going. The lunch crowd's coming in. You watch yourself, Ben. And bring me back my grandson. 
SISKO: I will. 
JOSEPH [on monitor]: I love you. 
SISKO: I love you too. 
[Promenade]
(Weyoun is greeting the plebs, with a Jem'Hadar escort.) 
WEYOUN: Hello. 
JAKE: Excuse me, Mister Weyoun. 
(Weyoun stops a Jem'Hadar beating Jake up.) 
WEYOUN: Oh, please. I prefer just Weyoun. 
JAKE: That's the kind of detail people like to know. Would this be a good time? 
WEYOUN: For what? 
JAKE: For the interview we talked about. You know, for the Federation News Service. 
WEYOUN: Oh, I'm afraid that will be quite impossible. 
JAKE: Why? 
WEYOUN: Because I've read your previous articles and they left me with one inescapable conclusion. You are biased against the Dominion. 
JAKE: What gave you that idea? 
WEYOUN: You keep referring to us as the station's, quote, occupying force, unquote. 
JAKE: What's wrong with that? 
WEYOUN: It has a negative connotation. All your articles are filled with pejorative terminology, which is why I've been forced to withhold their transmission. 
JAKE: Are you telling me that no one in the Federation read my reports? 
WEYOUN: If I don't send them, they don't read them. 
JAKE: What about freedom of the press? 
WEYOUN: Please tell me you're not that naive. 
JAKE: The only reason I stayed here was to report on the occupation. 
WEYOUN: You see, there you go again. This is not an occupation. This is a Cardassian station, Jake, and I'm sure you're aware that there are no Dominion troops on Bajor. And why should there be? We have a treaty with them. They're our friends. 
JAKE: All right. I'm sorry. I didn't mean anything by it. 
WEYOUN: If you want me to send your articles to the Federation, you're going to have to provide a more balanced perspective. 
JAKE: I won't write Dominion propaganda. 
WEYOUN: I would never dream of asking you to. All I want is for you to keep an open mind. 
JAKE: All right, my mind is open. Now can we do the interview? 
WEYOUN: All in good time. You keep writing, I'll keep reading. Let's leave it at that for now. Good day, Jake. 
[Sisko's office]
(The big wall screen shows stellar cartography map 4747, which includes DS9 at 207 mark 89.) 
ROSS: Starfleet Intelligence has discovered what we believe to be their main storage facility for ketracel-white in the Alpha Quadrant. Right here. 
(345-447, 254 mark 220, past Cardassia at 357 mark 220) 
ROSS: Deep in Cardassian space. We need to destroy it. 
BASHIR: Without the White to sustain them, the Jem'Hadar won't be able to function. 
ROSS: Without the White, the Jem'Hadar will die. 
DAX: I won't shed any tears, not if it helps end this war. 
ROSS: It may be our only way we can end this war, short of surrendering. 
BASHIR: How do you expect us to infiltrate Cardassian territory without the Defiant and its cloaking abilities? 
SISKO: I was wondering the same thing. 
ROSS: You won't need a cloaking device. We have something even better. 
(The screen switches to live feed of a dry dock.) 
DAX: It's a Jem'Hadar attack ship. 
ROSS: It's the one you captured last year, Captain. Now you get a chance to see what it can do. 
BASHIR: Do you even know how to fly that thing? 
SISKO: Not yet. But I intend to learn. 
[Jem'Hadar ship control room]
DAX: Guidance matrix, check. Aft parabolic thrusters, check. Sensor feed, check. Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Reactor core, check. Induction stabilisers, check. Phaser coils, check. 
DAX: Nog. 
NOG: Resonance emitters, check. Subspace field grid, check. Signal subprocessors, check. I think. 
O'BRIEN: You think? We've been training on this ship for two weeks now. 
NOG: I would like to put a Jem'Hadar soldier on the Defiant and see how well he does after two weeks. These controls are very different. They take time to get used to. 
O'BRIEN: We don't have any more time. We're about to take this ship into enemy territory. We don't want any slipups. 
NOG: I don't intend to make any, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Good. 
NOG: I still don't see why we couldn't install a few chairs on the bridge. 
O'BRIEN: Because this ship wasn't designed for chairs. 
NOG: Well, my feet aren't designed to stand for long periods of time. They get tired. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe we should leave you behind. 
NOG: My feet might like that, but I wouldn't. 
O'BRIEN: It's not your feet that you need to worry about, it's your stomach. Have you noticed? There isn't a single food replicator anywhere on this ship. 
NOG: That shouldn't be a problem. Captain Sisko says there'll be plenty of field rations. 
O'BRIEN: Try eating nothing but field rations for three weeks and then tell me it isn't a problem. 
DAX: You want to know what is a problem? No viewscreen. Who builds a bridge without a window? 
BASHIR: The same people who build a ship without an Infirmary. Here's a list of all the medical supplies I brought on board. They're in my quarters, for want of a better place. 
DAX: Don't worry, we'll try not to have any medical emergencies while you're sleeping. 
BASHIR: I'm so glad that you find the lack of proper medical facilities amusing. But if trouble breaks out, it's not a viewscreen or a chair or even a sandwich you'll be wanting. It's a bio-bed with a surgical tissue regenerator. 
DAX: Maybe. But right now I would settle for a viewscreen. 
NOG: Or a chair. 
O'BRIEN: Or a sandwich. 
SISKO: All right, people. Prepare for departure. 
DAX: All systems ready, sir. 
BASHIR: Garak, come to see us off? 
GARAK: Not quite. 
SISKO: I invited Mister Garak to join us. Considering we're heading into Cardassian territory, I thought he might prove useful. 
GARAK: Well, it's been known to happen. 
O'BRIEN: Pull up a chair. 
NOG: We're cleared for departure, sir. 
(Sisko puts on the headset with virtual viewscreen eyepiece.) 
SISKO: Take us out, old man. 
DAX: Aye, Captain. Aft thrusters at one half. 
SISKO: Bring us about. 
(The ship makes a sudden lurch to the right.) 
DAX: Just wanted to make sure everyone was awake. 
SISKO: We are now. Just take it nice and easy, all right? 
DAX: I can try. 
SISKO: Set a course for the Cardassian border, heading zero five four mark zero nine three. Warp six. 
DAX: Yes, sir. 
[Captain's office]
(Kira rings the bell and Dukat puts the baseball back on it's stand.) 
DUKAT: Come in. 
KIRA: You wanted to see me? 
DUKAT: I always want to see you, Major. And therein lies the problem. It's been three months since my return to this station and you and I have barely spent any time with one another. Oh, I know you can point out the various meetings we've attended together, but they never seem to offer us the opportunity to venture beyond station business. 
KIRA: I don't have time for this. 
DUKAT: Major! I haven't dismissed you yet. 
KIRA: What do you want from me, Dukat? 
DUKAT: Come now, Major. Have the last three months been that bad? 
KIRA: Is that what you want? Is that why I'm here? To flatter you? To tell you know what a good job you've doing and how happy we all are to have you back? 
DUKAT: Sarcasm doesn't become you, Major. It's your directness that I've always found most appealing. 
KIRA: Dukat, I've got better things to do than to stand here and help you play out one of your little fantasies. 
DUKAT: You feel I've betrayed you. 
KIRA: Not just me, everyone. Even your own people. 
DUKAT: Cardassia was on the edge of an abyss, Major. The war with the Klingons left us into a third-rate power. My people had lost their way. I've made them strong again. 
KIRA: At what price? You sold Cardassia to the Dominion. 
DUKAT: Yes, a high price, to be sure. But look what we're getting in return. The Alpha Quadrant itself. 
KIRA: We'll see about that. 
DUKAT: Yes, we will. Oh, I could make things very pleasant for you here, Kira. 
KIRA: You could start by doing something about your breath. 
DUKAT: I'm a patient man. I can wait. 
KIRA: Wait for what? What do you think is going to happen here, Dukat? That you're going to wear me down with your charming personality? That I'm going to be swept off my feet by that insincere smile? Are you really so deluded that you actually believe that we're going to have some kind of intimate relationship? 
DUKAT: Oh, we already do. Good day, Major. I have work to do. 
(And he goes back to spinning the baseball on the desk.) 
[Jem'Hadar ship control room]
BASHIR: There. I wish I had had more time to study the side effects of wearing that headset. 
SISKO: At least we know one side effect. Headaches. 
BASHIR: Well, the headsets were designed to be worn by the Vorta and the Jem'Hadar, not humans. 
GARAK: Captain, may I make a suggestion? 
SISKO: Only if you talk softly. 
GARAK: We saw Dukat wearing one of these headsets during the attack on Deep Space Nine. Perhaps Cardassian physiology is more compatible. 
SISKO: Are you volunteering? 
GARAK: I suppose I am. This ship is equipped with two of them. If I wore one, then you wouldn't have to. At least, not all the time. 
BASHIR: I agree with Garak, Captain. The less you wear it, the better. 
(Sisko hands over the second headset.) 
SISKO: Garak. 
GARAK: It's like having a viewscreen inside your brain. 
NOG: Sir, there's a Federation ship off our starboard bow, bearing one five seven mark zero nine five. It's the USS Centaur. 
SISKO: That's Charlie Reynolds' ship. 
GARAK: I see it. 
(BOOM) 
SISKO: Cadet, open a channel to the Centaur. 
NOG: I can't. Our comm. system's down. 
GARAK: Perhaps we should consider returning fire. 
BASHIR: We can't do that. They're Starfleet. 
(BOOM) 
GARAK: Well, you tell them, not us. 
(BOOM) 
O'BRIEN: We better do something. 
SISKO: Dax, get us across the border, maximum warp. I hope Charlie Reynolds knows better than to follow us into Dominion territory. 
(BOOM) 
SISKO: How long before we cross the border? 
DAX: We just did. 
(BOOM) 
NOG: The Centaur's still with us. 
SISKO: Charlie never did know when to quit. 
O'BRIEN: I hope he knows what he's doing. 
GARAK: The question is, do we know what we're doing? 
DAX: Captain, that last hit damaged one of our guidance thrusters. 
SISKO: Drop us out of warp. Come about. Prepare to return fire. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
DAX: The Centaur has followed us out of warp. 
(BOOM) 
SISKO: Target their weapons array. Avoid their engines. I don't want to leave Charlie out here stranded on the wrong side of the border. 
DAX: We're coming about for another pass. 
SISKO: Charlie likes to swing for the fences so stay in tight. Attack pattern Omega. 
DAX: The Centaur is going to warp. It's heading back to Federation space. 
NOG: Yes! 
GARAK: Nice work, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: I didn't know I'd scored a direct hit. 
DAX: Maybe you didn't. I'm picking up three Jem'Hadar ships headed this way. 
SISKO: He must have seen them. 
NOG: They went right by us. 
DAX: Without even bothering to say hello. 
O'BRIEN: They're too busy chasing the Centaur. 
BASHIR: You think Reynolds will outrun them? 
SISKO: Charlie's been in tight spots before. He'll make it. 
DAX: I wish we could help. 
SISKO: We can't. Chief, get our comm. system back online. Return to course. Warp seven. 
DAX: Yes, sir. 
[Security office]
KIRA: You should have seen the arrogant, smug look on his face. He was in control and there was nothing that I could do about it. The war isn't over yet, but as far as Dukat is concerned, he's already won. I'd love to show him he's wrong. 
ODO: For the moment at least, I'm afraid he has won. Look at me. I don't know why I bother to sit here every day. I don't even have a security force to patrol the Promenade. 
KIRA: Then ask for one. Demand that they reinstate your Bajoran deputies. 
ODO: Dukat will never agree to that. 
KIRA: Forget about Dukat. Go to Weyoun. He'll listen to you. As far as he's concerned you're a god, and that gives you power. But what good is power if you're not willing to use it? 
[Wardroom]
(It's meal time for Weyoun's Jem'Hadar escort.) 
JEM'HADAR: We pledge our loyalty to the Founders from now until death. 
WEYOUN: Then receive this reward from the Founders. May it keep you strong. 
(The Jem'Hadar take their White and leave.) 
DUKAT: You enjoy that, don't you? That constant reminder that you're their master. 
WEYOUN: The Founders are the masters. I am merely their servant, as are the Jem'Hadar. And you. 
DUKAT: That may be. But even amongst servants, someone has to be in charge. 
WEYOUN: That is exactly the kind of observation I've come to expect from you, Dukat. Interesting, yet somewhat petty. 
(Damar enters with Odo.) 
DAMAR: Forgive the interruption, but he insisted on seeing you immediately. 
WEYOUN: Founder, I'm honoured by your visit. Is there someway I can be of service? 
ODO: I want my Bajoran security officers reinstated. 
WEYOUN: Consider it done. 
ODO: From now on, they'll be responsible for security on the Promenade. 
WEYOUN: I don't see any problem with that. 
DUKAT: I do. 
WEYOUN: This is between me and Odo. I'll thank you to keep out of it. 
ODO: I'll have my officers report to the armoury within the hour. 
WEYOUN: Now that I've done something for you, perhaps there's something you'd consent to do for me. 
[Quark's]
KIRA: A member of the station's Ruling Council. You? 
ODO: Along with Weyoun and Dukat. Now I'll have a voice in station policy. 
KIRA: You're sure this is a good idea? 
ODO: Dukat thought it was a terrible idea. You should have seen his face when Weyoun offered me the position. 
KIRA: Don't you see that Weyoun's using you? Your presence on the Council validates the Dominion control of the station. 
ODO: I thought we were using him. I know the danger, Major. I've had to walk this line before during the Cardassian occupation. I can do it again, but this time I won't be alone. I'll have you to help me. 
KIRA: That's right, you will. 
ODO: Then this is a victory after all. 
KIRA: I suppose it is. But for some reason, it just doesn't feel like one. 
[Jem'Hadar ship control room]
(In orbit of an asteroid.) 
GARAK: The ship ahead just transmitted a message to the asteroid storage facility. They're requesting to be resupplied with ketracel-white. 
DAX: Looks like we've come to the right place. 
(A forcefield is lowered and the ship moves closer.) 
GARAK: The ship beamed down a hundred and ten empty canisters. Mow the storage facility is beaming up a hundred and ten full ones. 
SISKO: Everything ready, Chief? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: I've got eighty three empty canisters standing by, and one not so empty. 
[Jem'Hadar cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: Ninety isotons of enriched ultritium should take out the entire storage facility and everything else within eight hundred kilometres. 
[Jem'Hadar ship control room]
SISKO: Which means we have to be nine hundred kilometres away before the bomb goes off. 
GARAK: The other ship is leaving orbit. 
SISKO: Dax? 
DAX: The entire exchange took ninety two point three seconds. 
GARAK: I've asked for eighty four canisters of ketracel-white. Excellent. They're acknowledging my request. 
(Our ship moves into delivery range.) 
SISKO: Chief, set the detonator for three minutes. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Detonator set. 
BASHIR: Three minutes? If it takes us ninety two point three seconds to make the exchange that doesn't give us much time, sir. 
SISKO: That doesn't give the Jem'Hadar much time to detect the explosive either. Commander, beam down the canisters. 
DAX: Canisters away. 
NOG: I hope whoever's in charge down there hasn't taken a lunch break. 
BASHIR: The Jem'Hadar don't eat, Nog. 
NOG: That's good. How do we know they're Jem'Hadar? 
DAX: Relax, Cadet, everything's on schedule. They've just beamed eighty four canisters of White into our cargo hold. 
GARAK: I've acknowledged receipt and requested clearance for departure. 
SISKO: Good. Prepare to go to warp. 
DAX: Standing by. 
GARAK: Captain, I think we have a problem. They've just raised the security net. 
SISKO: Repeat our request for clearance. 
GARAK: They're not responding. 
BASHIR: If they don't drop the net before the bomb goes off, we don't stand a chance. 
DAX: One minute and thirty seconds to detonation. 
NOG: Do you think they found the bomb? 
O'BRIEN: I doubt it. Not this fast. 
BASHIR: Then why aren't they letting us go? 
SISKO: That's a good question. 
GARAK: Captain, they're responding. They're ordering us to stand by. 
SISKO: For what? 
GARAK: They're not saying. 
DAX: One minute fifteen seconds. 
SISKO: Chief, can we punch a hole in the security net? 
O'BRIEN: Sure. It'll take a couple of minutes. 
SISKO: We don't have a couple of minutes. What if we disable the net's power generator? 
NOG: The explosion will do that. 
GARAK: Well that won't do us much good. 
DAX: One minute. 
SISKO: Maybe it will. When the generator's destroyed, the net'll come down. All we have to do is to time it so that we're moving fast enough at the moment of detonation to avoid getting caught in the explosion. 
DAX: But not so fast that we smash into the net before it's deactivated. 
O'BRIEN: It's tricky. 
SISKO: Not if we time it right. 
DAX: Let's see. A radial geodesic in a thirty nine Cochrane warp field contracts normal space at a rate of 
BASHIR: We have to go to full impulse one point three seconds before the bomb detonates. 
SISKO: Dax? 
DAX: The computer agrees with Julian. 
GARAK: Of course it does. They think alike. 
DAX: Turning over piloting controls to the main computer. Set. 
SISKO: Time? 
DAX: Twenty two seconds until the explosion. 
NOG: Twenty-two seconds. That's plenty of time. 
O'BRIEN: See, Cadet? There was nothing to worry about. 
(KaBOOM! goes the installation.) 
O'BRIEN: It must've gone off early. 
SISKO: Dax, get us out of here! 
(Consoles explode as they get away on the edge of the shockwave.) 
GARAK: Well, not quite according to plan, but I'm sure Starfleet will be quite satisfied with the results. 
SISKO: I agree, Mister Garak. Well done, old man. How bad is it, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: It doesn't look good. I'm going to have to switch to auxiliary life support. Deflectors are down, guidance system's shot, and 
SISKO: And what? 
O'BRIEN: The core matrix is fried. We don't have warp drive. 
GARAK: Forgive my ignorance, but if we don't have warp drive, how long is it going to take us to reach the closest Federation starbase? 
SISKO: A long time, Mister Garak. 
GARAK: How long? 
BASHIR: Seventeen years, two months, and three days. Give or take an hour. 

