Episode Number: 556
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Treachery, Faith and the Great River
Treachery, Faith and the Great River
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 2 Nov, 1998
[Kira's bedroom]
(Kira is having a lovely back massage.) 
KIRA: A little lower. Lower. Lower. 
ODO: How's that? 
(He's morphed his hands into big paddles for better effect.) 
ODO: I hope this taught you a lesson. 
KIRA: What's that? 
ODO: Never play springball against a changeling. 
KIRA: Just for that, next time I'm not going to let you win a single game. 
ODO: Then you'd better work on your backhand. 
KIRA: Right now, all I want to do is sleep for two or three (ouch) days. 
ODO: Go right ahead, I should be back by the time you wake up. 
KIRA: Back? From where? 
ODO: I received a coded message from Gul Russol this morning. 
KIRA: Gul Russol? I thought he was executed when Cardassia joined the Dominion. 
ODO: So did I, but apparently we were wrong. The message says he wants to meet with me. 
KIRA: Why? 
ODO: I don't know, but he's my most reliable Cardassian informant. 
KIRA: You mean he was. What if Russol is dead and this is just a trap? 
ODO: I've thought about that, but I have to be sure. I owe him that much. 
KIRA: Want me to come with you? 
ODO: Russol insists I come alone. Don't worry, Nerys. I'll be careful. 
KIRA: Worried? Ha. This just gives me more time to work on my backhand. 
[Promenade]
(There are big cables everywhere.) 
QUARK: Chief, how much longer is the Promenade going to be closed? My bar is empty, my waiters are bored and I'm losing money. 
O'BRIEN: Leave me alone, Quark or I'll feed you to one of those plasma conductors. 
QUARK: Are you threatening me? 
NOG: We're working as fast as we can. 
QUARK: As spokesman for the Promenade Merchant's Association, I'm going to file an official protest with Captain Sisko. 
SISKO: Put it in writing, Quark. 
QUARK: I'll go find a PADD. 
(Quark leaves.) 
SISKO: So, how much longer, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: Well, we should be through here by the end of the day, sir. 
SISKO: Oh, I'm not talking about the Promenade, I'm talking about the Defiant. When is the gravity net going to be repaired? The last time I stepped onto the bridge, I felt ten kilos heavier. 
O'BRIEN: I'm afraid it's going to take some time. 
SISKO: How much time? 
O'BRIEN: About three weeks. We have to replace the graviton stabiliser. 
SISKO: You have three days. I'm going to take the Defiant back out on patrol and I don't want my crew getting queasy because the gravity keeps fluctuating. 
O'BRIEN: But sir, the sector quartermaster said it would take three weeks to get us a new stabiliser. 
SISKO: That is your problem, Chief. Now, I'm leaving for Bajor for a conference and I want that stabiliser replaced by the time I get back. Do I make myself clear? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
(Sisko leaves.) 
NOG: I don't want to sound negative, but I don't see how you're going to get the Defiant ready in three days. 
O'BRIEN: Neither do I. 
NOG: This quartermaster you've been dealing with, what's his name? 
O'BRIEN: Chief, Chief, Chief Willoughby. 
NOG: I mean his first name. 
O'BRIEN: I don't know. 
NOG: Is he married? 
O'BRIEN: Married? What does that have to do with getting us a graviton stabiliser? 
NOG: Everything. This Chief Willoughby must get hundreds of supply requisitions every day. He can't possibly fill them all, so he puts everyone on a waiting list. 
O'BRIEN: I know how he feels. I do the same thing. 
NOG: Well, the secret is getting him to put you at the top of that list. The best way to do that is to form a relationship with him. Get to know the name of his wife, his children, find out what he likes to eat 
O'BRIEN: I don't have time to form a relationship with Willoughby. 
NOG: I do. I can get you that stabiliser, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: In three days? 
NOG: Leave everything to me. 
O'BRIEN: All right, butt don't do anything I wouldn't do. 
NOG: Chief, I can't operate under those kinds of restrictions. 
O'BRIEN: At least promise me you won't do anything to get us court-martialed. 
NOG: I'll try. 
O'BRIEN: Nog! 
NOG: Just kidding, Chief. 
[Cave]
(The runabout is orbiting a cratered moon.) 
ODO: Russol? Russol. 
WEYOUN: I'm afraid he couldn't be here. 
ODO: Weyoun. 
WEYOUN: Founder. It is an honour to stand in your presence once again. 
ODO: Where's Gul Russol? 
WEYOUN: I'm afraid the Cardassian Central Command had him put to death almost a year ago. I regret having to deceive you, but it was the only way I could think of to get you here. 
ODO: Well, I'm here. What do you want? 
WEYOUN: To serve you. I no longer consider myself a member of the Dominion. 
ODO: You're defecting? 
WEYOUN: Do with me as you wish. I place my fate entirely in your hands. 
(And on that bombshell, the opening titles.) 
WEYOUN: You don't believe me, do you? 
ODO: I believe Gul Russol is dead. You say you're defecting from the Dominion. Why? 
WEYOUN: Founder, please. 
ODO: I've told you before I'm not a Founder. 
WEYOUN: As you wish. Odo, I'll tell you everything you want to know but first, we really should get aboard your runabout. The Jem'Hadar are already hunting for me and if I'm found 
ODO: You haven't answered my question. Why did you decide to defect? 
WEYOUN: I realised my place is with you. 
ODO: You can do better than that. 
WEYOUN: Then let's just say I left Cardassia because my life was in danger. 
ODO: From whom? 
WEYOUN: Everyone. 
ODO: Aren't you being a little paranoid? 
WEYOUN: Of course I'm paranoid. Everyone's trying to kill me. 
ODO: Why? 
WEYOUN: Because this war with the Federation was supposed to have been won months ago. 
ODO: Well, things don't always turn out as planned. 
WEYOUN: Quite true. And when things go wrong, someone has to take the blame. And this time, it's me. Now we really should be going. Think about it, Odo. The information I possess could help the Federation win this war. 
ODO: And you're willing to share that information? 
WEYOUN: All you have to do is ask. 
ODO: We've heard rumours that the Dominion has established a new Ketracel White storage facility somewhere in Sector five zero seven. 
WEYOUN: The facility's located in the Pelosa system. I can supply you with the exact coordinates. 
ODO: Odo to the Rio Grande. Two to beam up. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
ODO: Sit here where I can keep an eye on you. 
WEYOUN: If it makes you feel better. But you should know I would never harm a god. 
ODO: I'm not a god, I'm a security officer. As far as I'm concerned, you're just another prisoner. 
WEYOUN: You have no idea how much it hurts me to hear you say that. 
[Promenade]
NOG: I spoke to Edgar. 
O'BRIEN: Edgar who? 
NOG: Your new best friend, Chief Edgar Willoughby. He wanted me to thank you for that bottle of Gamzian wine you sent him. 
O'BRIEN: I didn't send him any wine. 
NOG: I took the liberty of sending it for you. By the way, his wife's name is Cynthia. They have a daughter, Melissa, age eight and a son, Edgar junior, aged five. 
O'BRIEN: Did you get the stabiliser? 
NOG: Not quite. 
O'BRIEN: What do you mean, not quite? 
NOG: Unfortunately, he's out of stabilisers and won't be getting a new shipment for another week. 
O'BRIEN: That's it. I'm doomed. 
NOG: Not necessarily. Eddie told me the USS Sentinel has an extra stabiliser. 
O'BRIEN: What makes you think they're going to give it to us? 
NOG: I didn't say they were going to give it to us. But they might be willing to trade for it. 
O'BRIEN: Trade? For what? 
NOG: Depends on what they need and what we have. 
O'BRIEN: Well, I suppose it doesn't hurt to try. But remember, be discreet. 
NOG: Rule of Acquisition one sixty eight, whisper your way to success. 
O'BRIEN: Words to live by. 
NOG: Chief, one more thing. I need your authorisation code. 
O'BRIEN: What for? 
NOG: The shipping orders. 
O'BRIEN: Bring them to me and I'll authorise them. 
NOG: I just thought it would save time. When did you say the Captain was going to be back? 
(O'Brien signs the PADD with a sigh.) 
NOG: Stop looking so worried, Chief. I've got it all under control. 
O'BRIEN: I sure hope so. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
ODO: I wish you'd stop doing that. 
WEYOUN: Doing what? 
ODO: Staring at me. 
WEYOUN: Was I? I didn't mean to. 
ODO: You've been doing it for the last ten hours. 
WEYOUN: I'm sorry. It's just such an honour to be sitting here with a (gets a Look) security officer. 
ODO: We're being hailed. 
WEYOUN: Don't respond. 
ODO: It's a Cardassian transmission. 
WEYOUN: Scramble the comm. frequencies so they can't lock onto us. 
ODO: I'm trying. 
(Too late.) 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: Founder. It's an honour to speak with you once again. You look surprised to see me, Odo. 
ODO: I'm well aware the Vorta are all clones, but I'm not sure the universe is ready for two Weyouns. 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: I couldn't agree more. 
ODO [on monitor]: So which of you is the Weyoun I've had the misfortune of dealing with over the past few years? 
WEYOUN: Actually, neither of us. 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: That was Weyoun Five. Our illustrious predecessor was killed a month ago. 
WEYOUN: And I had the honour of replacing him. 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: What a sad day that was 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN7: For the Dominion. Weyoun Five was a great man. A true patriot. His death in a transporter accident was most unfortunate. 
WEYOUN [on monitor]: And still under investigation. 
DAMAR: A very thorough investigation that has found no evidence of foul play. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
ODO: Interesting, So if you're Weyoun Six, you must be Seven. 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: Clones. Keeping track of them is a full time job. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
ODO: And why were you activated if he's still alive? 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN7: Normally I wouldn't have been, but when a clone is found to be defective 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
WEYOUN: I'm not defective! 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: Of course 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN7: You are. What other explanation is there for your behaviour? Leaving your post. Defecting to the enemy. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
WEYOUN: Are you calling Odo your enemy? 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: Absolutely not. 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN7: I was referring to the Federation, as you're well aware. 
DAMAR: Enough bickering. Order him to trigger his implant. 
WEYOUN7: I was getting to that. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
ODO: What implant? 
WEYOUN: Like all Vorta, I have a termination implant in my brain stem. 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: Prove your loyalty to the Founders. Activate it. 
WEYOUN: The only Founder I'm loyal to is Odo, and he wants me alive. 
DAMAR [on monitor]: I told you it was a waste of time to try to reason with him. You're a dead man, whether you activate that implant or not. That ship will never make it back to Deep Space Nine. 
WEYOUN7: Founder, there's really no need for you to be involved in this petty dispute. If you'll just hold your position until one of our ships can reach you 
ODO: I have no intention of releasing my prisoner to you. 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: If you don't, I can't be responsible for the consequences. 
WEYOUN: That's an empty threat. He wouldn't dare harm a Founder. 
DAMAR [on monitor]: Maybe he won't, but I will. Think it over, Shape shifter. One of our attack ships is on the way. 
(Transmission ends.) 
WEYOUN: Forgive me, Odo I should've told you the truth about myself. 
ODO: Well, it's not too late to start. Why did you defect? 
WEYOUN: It's simple really. From the moment I was activated, I felt this war was wrong. Please don't misunderstand me, I still worship the Founders, but I believe their obsession with conquering the Alpha Quadrant is misguided. It's time they learned to live in peace with the Solids. I know it's not my place to question the Founders. Maybe Weyoun Seven is right. I am defective. 
ODO: On the contrary. What you're saying about the war, about the Founders, makes perfect sense. 
WEYOUN: I want to thank you, Odo, for the way you stood up for me, protected me. 
ODO: Well don't let it go to your head. I'd do the same for any prisoner. 
WEYOUN: Of course you would. You're a god. 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN7: To think a Weyoun could be capable of such treachery. 
DAMAR: I knew there was something wrong with him from the moment we met. He lacked your appetite for cruelty. 
WEYOUN7: He's a disgrace to me and all Vorta. Though I suppose he can't be held completely responsible for his behaviour. The Vorta cloning process is a very delicate one. Every once in a while a clone is found to be defective. It's never happened to a Weyoun before, but it does happen. And speaking of treachery, there is still the little matter of the death of Weyoun Five. 
DAMAR: You really believe I had something to do with that? 
WEYOUN7: You were supposed to be on that transporter pad with him. 
DAMAR: I was called away. An urgent meeting with the Central Command. 
WEYOUN7: How convenient. 
DAMAR: I always was lucky. Are you sure I can't interest you in a glass of kanar? 
WEYOUN7: I'm afraid our problems won't be washed away quite that easily. 
DAMAR: I don't know what you're so concerned about. Odo couldn't possibly hope to outrun a Jem'Hadar attack ship. 
WEYOUN7: But what if he refuses to hand over his prisoner? 
DAMAR: Then he'll die. 
WEYOUN7: He will not. We can't kill a Founder. I forbid it. 
DAMAR: Unless we stop them, Odo is going to take your predecessor back to the Federation, where he will undoubtedly reveal all he knows, all you know, about our strategic operations. You know what that means, don't you? 
WEYOUN7: It means we could lose the war. 
DAMAR: That's right. And I will not allow that to happen. Cardassia has risked too much, suffered too much. I will not stand by and let all of our plans, all of our dreams for the future, end in defeat just to spare the life of one Shape shifter. 
WEYOUN7: I don't believe the Jem'Hadar would want to fire on Odo, even if they were ordered to. 
DAMAR: They don't need to know he's on board. You simply order them to destroy the runabout. 
WEYOUN7: I suppose it could work. But if the Founders ever found out that we were responsible for Odo's death. 
DAMAR: Who's going to tell them? 
WEYOUN7: Odo doesn't even consider himself a Founder. 
DAMAR: Then we agree. The runabout must be destroyed. Excellent. Now I really think you should try a little kanar. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: Morning, Lieutenant. 
EZRI: I'd make myself scarce if I were you. 
O'BRIEN: Why? 
KIRA: Chief! In here now. 
EZRI: I tried to warn you. 
[Captain's office]
KIRA: Do you mind explaining this? 
O'BRIEN: Where's the Captain's desk? 
KIRA: Oh, you don't know? This is your authorisation code, isn't it? 
O'BRIEN: Nog. 
KIRA: What about him? 
O'BRIEN: Well, he must have traded the Captain's desk for the graviton stabiliser. 
KIRA: Excuse me? 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry, Colonel. I will get the desk back. 
KIRA: You're damn right you will. The Captain is returning from Bajor in two days, and when he does, I want his desk sitting right here where it belongs. 
[Replimat]
NOG: Don't worry, Chief. I didn't give away the Captain's desk. I just loaned it to someone. 
O'BRIEN: Who? 
NOG: Al Lorenzo. 
O'BRIEN: Who's Al Lorenzo? 
NOG: The Chief of Operations on Decos Prime. 
O'BRIEN: What does he want with the Captain's desk? 
NOG: He wants to take a picture of it. 
O'BRIEN: Why? 
NOG: He likes to collect holophotos of himself sitting behind the desks of famous Starfleet captains. Usually he just sneaks into their offices, but with the war on it's been hard for him to get away. 
O'BRIEN: Ha. Well that makes sense. 
NOG: He's got quite a collection. Captain DeSoto's desk, Captain Picard's desk. 
O'BRIEN: Okay, fine. So once he has his picture, he's going to send us the graviton stabiliser? 
NOG: No. He's giving us an induction modulator. 
O'BRIEN: But we don't need an induction modulator. 
NOG: But the USS Musashi does. 
O'BRIEN: Ah. So the Musashi's going to send us the stabiliser. 
NOG: No, they're giving us a phaser emitter. 
O'BRIEN: We don't need a phaser emitter. 
NOG: I know, but the USS Sentinel does, and they have the extra stabiliser. 
O'BRIEN: And they're willing to give it up for a phaser emitter? 
NOG: That's the rumour. 
O'BRIEN: Rumour? You've made all of these deals based on a rumour? 
NOG: From a very reliable source. 
O'BRIEN: But what if it turns out not to be true? 
NOG: You have to have faith, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: In a rumour? 
NOG: No, in the Great Material Continuum. 
O'BRIEN: Who are they? 
NOG: It's not a they, it's the force that binds the universe together. 
O'BRIEN: I must have missed that class in Engineering School. 
NOG: On Ferenginar, we learn about the Continuum while we still have our first set of ears. 
O'BRIEN: This is no time for Ferengi fairy tales. 
NOG: The Continuum is real. You see, there are millions upon millions of worlds in the universe, each one filled with too much of one thing and not enough of another. And the Great Continuum flows through them all like a mighty river, from have to want and back again. And if we navigate the Continuum with skill and grace, our ship will be filled with everything our hearts desire. 
O'BRIEN: Right now, I'd settle for a stabiliser and the Captain's desk. 
NOG: The river will provide. 
O'BRIEN: If it doesn't sink us first. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
(Weyoun is muttering and twitching.) 
WEYOUN: Odo? 
(Weyoun suddenly wakes.) 
ODO: What's wrong? 
WEYOUN: I think I was dreaming. 
ODO: Sounded more like a nightmare. 
WEYOUN: I was on Earth, Starfleet Headquarters. I was supposed to report for my debriefing, but I couldn't find the right office. Then I started calling your name, but you didn't answer. And then suddenly I was being chased by some Jem'Hadar. Or were they Klingons? Silly, isn't it? 
ODO: Not at all. It isn't easy to turn your back on your own people. Believe me, I know. 
WEYOUN: Odo, do you think Starfleet would allow you to conduct my debriefing? 
ODO: Possibly. 
WEYOUN: It would make it much easier. 
(Alarm) 
WEYOUN: What is it? 
ODO: Trouble. 
(BOOM as the Jem'Hadar start shooting.) 
WEYOUN: I can't believe they're firing on us. 
ODO: Trust me, they are. 
WEYOUN: But the Jem'Hadar would never obey an order to harm a Founder. 
ODO: Maybe they finally got it through their head that I'm not a Founder. 
WEYOUN: Or they don't know who they're firing at. We've got to let them know you're on board. 
ODO: They're jamming all the frequencies. I can't get through. 
WEYOUN: They've been ordered not to communicate with us. 
ODO: Damar said he was determined not to let us get back to the station. 
WEYOUN: See if you can get above them. 
ODO: Why? 
WEYOUN: I'll explain later. Just do it. 
(Rio Grande lets the Jem'Hadar pass underneath.) 
ODO: What now? 
WEYOUN: Lock phasers on their dorsal field junction. Their shields are weakest there. 
(A sustained phaser burst and KaBOOM!) 
ODO: Well, congratulations. You just saved our lives. 
WEYOUN: And murdered loyal servants of the Dominion. May the Founders forgive me. 
ODO: Has it ever occurred to you that the reason you believe the Founders are gods is because that's what they want you to believe? That they built that into your genetic code? 
WEYOUN: Of course they did. That's what gods do. After all, why be a god if there's no one to worship you? 
[Corridor]
O'BRIEN: Rom, where's Nog? 
ROM: I don't know, Chief. Nog left the station a couple of hours ago in a runabout. 
O'BRIEN: Who gave him permission to use a runabout? 
ROM: You did. 
O'BRIEN: I never should've given him my authorisation code. Did he say when he'd be back? 
ROM: Not to me. 
O'BRIEN: How could he do this to me? How could he leave me adrift, mid-river without a paddle? 
ROM: What river would that be? 
O'BRIEN: You know, the Great Material Continuum. 
ROM: Oh. That river. It can be very treacherous. 
O'BRIEN: Tell me about it. I suppose the good news is with Nog gone, nothing else can go missing. 
[Cargo bay]
MARTOK: Where are my cases of bloodwine! 
WORF: I do not know, General. But I promise you I will find out. 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: I don't understand it. How could a runabout destroy a Jem'Hadar fighter? 
WEYOUN7: Isn't it obvious? My predecessor must have helped Odo get past the ship's defences. 
DAMAR: Then how do we stop them? 
WEYOUN7: How else? Send more ships. Send a whole battalion if necessary, from our base at Olmerak. 
DAMAR: Consider it done. 
WEYOUN7: Remember to tell them to fire on sight. 
FOUNDER: Fire at whom? 
WEYOUN7: Founder, how may I serve you? 
FOUNDER: By answering my question. 
DAMAR: We spotted a Federation runabout spying on our base in the Olmerak system. 
FOUNDER: Surely one ship shouldn't be much of a threat. 
WEYOUN7: We'll have it destroyed within the hour. 
(Her face looks dry and wrinkled.) 
DAMAR: Are you feeling all right? 
FOUNDER: Why do you ask? 
DAMAR: Your face. 
(She morphs the wrinkles away.) 
FOUNDER: I'm fine. But from now on, I want the temperature in these rooms lowered by fifteen degrees. I do not share the Cardassians' love of heat. 
WEYOUN7: Nor do I. Lower the temperature. 
DAMAR: As you wish. 
WEYOUN7: Is there anything else I can do for you? 
FOUNDER: Have you located Weyoun Six? 
WEYOUN7: It's only a matter of time. 
FOUNDER: So you keep saying. 
WEYOUN7: I assure you, Founder. He will be dealt with. 
(She leaves.) 
DAMAR: Did you notice her face? How parched it looked? 
WEYOUN7: You heard her. These rooms are too hot. 
DAMAR: I wonder. I'm telling you she's not well. 
WEYOUN7: She's not the Founder you should be worried about. Contact Olmerak and order those ships to intercept the runabout. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
(Weyoun uses a chopstick to spear a piece of salami from a pizza.) 
WEYOUN: That was filling. 
ODO: I would hope so. You sampled the replicator's entire menu. 
WEYOUN: I enjoyed the different textures. 
ODO: You mean tastes, don't you? 
WEYOUN: Not at all. The Vorta sense of taste is quite limited. About the only foods we really enjoy are kava nuts and rippleberries. 
ODO: Ah. I take it this is also a result of your genetic programming? 
WEYOUN: It's the Founders' way of making sure we remember our past. You must know the story of how the Founders created the Vorta? 
ODO: No, but I have the feeling you're going to tell me all about it. 
WEYOUN: The Vorta used to be quite different from what we are today. We were forest dwellers. Small, timid, ape-like creatures living in hollowed out trees. 
ODO: Eating nuts and berries. 
WEYOUN: And living in fear of the many predators that would hunt us for food. One day, a wounded changeling came stumbling through the forest fleeing from a mob of angry solids. 
ODO: Why were they chasing him? 
WEYOUN: What does it matter? Solids have always feared and distrusted shape-shifters, you know that. Well, a family of Vorta hid the changeling from his pursuers. And in return for saving his life, the changeling promised the Vorta that one day we would be transformed into powerful beings. That we would become an important part of a great new empire that would stretch across the Galaxy. 
ODO: And the changeling kept his word. 
WEYOUN: That's right. Imagine, Odo. My people were once little more than apes, and look at us now. Look at what you've done for us. 
ODO: If the story were true, it would at least prove that my people are capable of generosity and kindness. 
WEYOUN: You care about your people very much, don't you, Odo? In spite of all that's happened between you. 
ODO: Maybe I do, but that doesn't change the fact that they're responsible for a war that's killed millions. 
WEYOUN: Odo, there's something you need to know. A sickness has spread throughout the Great Link. The Founders are dying. I was summoned to a meeting by the female changeling. She wanted to discuss troop deployments with me, and suddenly her hands began to shrivel. It lasted only a second or two, but over the last few weeks, it's happened a number of times. It's like she's withering. 
ODO: And you're sure the other changelings are also infected? 
WEYOUN: She said the entire Link is suffering from the disease. 
ODO: Everyone but me. 
WEYOUN: If they're unable to find a cure, you'll be the last of your kind. 
ODO: Why didn't you tell me this earlier? 
WEYOUN: Because I knew how much it would hurt you. I'm sorry to bring you such sad news. But at least you're not infected. The Dominion will survive. 
ODO: Meaning what? 
WEYOUN: Think about it, Odo. You have an opportunity to rectify the mistakes your people have made. To build a new Dominion based on cooperation, not conquest. On peace, not war. A new order under your leadership. 
ODO: And what's your role going to be in this new order? 
WEYOUN: Whatever you want it to be. I wish only to serve you. 
(Alarm.) 
ODO: All right, and you can start by telling me how one runabout is going to survive an assault by four Jem'Hadar ships. 
WEYOUN: I'm sure you'll think of something. 
ODO: There's a Kuiper Belt not far from here. We might be able to hide among the comet fragments. But we don't have much time. They're closing fast. 
(They dodge in amongst the icy boulders.) 
WEYOUN: These comet fragments are nothing but huge chunks of ice. The Jem'Hadar will have no trouble finding us. 
ODO: Not if we become the ice. 
(The runabout flies into a crevasse and through to a cave.) 
ODO: Well, with the power off and the runabout in thermal contact with the ice, we won't generate enough of an energy signature for their sensors to read. 
WEYOUN: We become the ice. Only a god could think of such a thing. 
ODO: Well let's just hope the Jem'Hadar give up their search before we freeze to death. 
WEYOUN: My faith will keep me warm. 
ODO: Perhaps. But in an hour you may want to trade in that faith for a thermal blanket. 
[Captain's office]
(There's a desk, but) 
O'BRIEN: What do you think? 
BASHIR: It's white. 
O'BRIEN: I know it's white. I'm going to paint it. 
BASHIR: It's the wrong shape, it's the wrong height, the wrong width. Other than that, it's perfect. The Captain will never suspect you switched desks on him. 
O'BRIEN: Julian, I need help, not sarcasm. 
BASHIR: I'm afraid Nog's the only one who can help you now. 
O'BRIEN: If he gets back to the station before the Captain does. 
BASHIR: Maybe he's not coming back. Maybe he'd decided to make a run for it. 
(Kira enters.) 
KIRA: That isn't the Captain's desk. 
BASHIR: He's going to paint it. 
KIRA: Get it out of here. 
(Martok enters.) 
KIRA: Can I help you, General? 
MARTOK: No. But he can. 
[Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: Bloodwine? 
MARTOK: Sixteen cases, sent to me by my wife. Now where are they? 
O'BRIEN: How should I know? 
WORF: You authorised their removal. That is your authorisation code, is it not? 
O'BRIEN: Nog. 
MARTOK: Chief, I want that bloodwine back here by tomorrow. Understood? 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
WEYOUN: Odo, when you said you were cutting power to all systems did that include life support? 
ODO: I'm afraid so. 
WEYOUN: Ah. That explains it. 
ODO: Explains what? 
WEYOUN: Why I'm having trouble breathing. 
ODO: We should have enough oxygen left for another three hours. Of course, by then we'll have probably frozen to death. 
WEYOUN: But you can't die. You have to survive to rebuild the Dominion. 
(BOOM) 
WEYOUN: They've found us. 
(The Jem'Hadar are blowing up the proto-comets.) 
WEYOUN: What do we do now? 
ODO: We can't stay here. 
WEYOUN: You're not going to try to outrun those ships, are you? 
ODO: What choice do we have? 
(Their hiding place goes Boom as they make their run.) 
WEYOUN: We're on fire. 
ODO: There's an extinguisher behind you. What are you waiting for? 
WEYOUN: I live only to serve you. 
(Weyoun puts out the fire and goes to the central console.) 
ODO: What are you doing? Why'd you activate the comm. system? 
(Weyoun 7 and Damar appear on the monitor.) 
WEYOUN: All right, call off those ships. 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: Why should I? 
WEYOUN: Because you don't need them anymore. 
Weyoun Six places his index finger behind his ear and his thumb under his chin, then applies pressure. He collapses. 
WEYOUN [on monitor]: I'm glad to see you've come to your senses. 
ODO: What have you done? 
WEYOUN7: I've saved your life and the Dominion's as well. 
WEYOUN [on monitor]: He's activated his termination implant and proven himself to be a worthy Vorta at last. 
WEYOUN7: I obey the Founders in all things. (Boom) Now call off those ships! 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: We don't know what he told Odo. He may have revealed important tactical 
WEYOUN7: That's a risk we'll just have to take. I've ordered the Jem'Hadar to break off the attack. I see your runabout has suffered some battle damage. Will you require 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: Any further assistance? 
ODO: I think you've done enough. 
WEYOUN7 [on monitor]: I sincerely regret any inconvenience we may have caused you, Odo. Please have a safe and pleasant journey back to Deep Space Nine. 
(Transmission ends.) 
WEYOUN: They say voluntary termination is quick and painless. I'm afraid it's not true. 
ODO: I'll get you a pain suppressor. 
WEYOUN: That won't be necessary but there is one thing you can do for me. 
ODO: What's that? 
WEYOUN: Give me your blessing. 
ODO: I can't. 
WEYOUN: Please, Odo. Tell me that I haven't failed, that I've served you well. 
ODO: You have. And for that you have my gratitude, and my blessing. 
[Ops]
BASHIR: Miles, the Captain's back. 
O'BRIEN: I know. He sent for me. 
BASHIR: Good luck. 
O'BRIEN: Thanks. 
[Captain's office]
(Sisko's desk is there, and Nog.) 
SISKO: Ah, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Captain, your desk 
SISKO: Yes, it looks nice, doesn't it? I came in this morning and found Ensign Nog polishing it. 
NOG: It was looking a little dull. 
SISKO: Well, here is the maintenance request from the Gettysburg. It should be docking here later today. That'll be all. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: Oh, about the stabiliser. 
O'BRIEN: Captain, I can explain. 
SISKO: Don't bother. Ensign Nog told me you were able to get hold of one this morning. 
O'BRIEN: I was? I mean I was. 
SISKO: How long before you can have it online? 
O'BRIEN: Er, eight hours. 
SISKO: I plan to take the Defiant out on patrol in two. 
O'BRIEN: Two it is, sir. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: I don't know how you did it, Nog 
NOG: I never lost faith in the Great Material Continuum. 
O'BRIEN: Like you say, the river will provide. 
MARTOK: Chief! 
O'BRIEN: The waters just got choppy again. 
(Martok hands O'Brien a bottle of bloodwine.) 
MARTOK: I wanted you to have this. Consider it an apology. 
O'BRIEN: You found the bloodwine. 
WORF: Not exactly. Ensign Nog returned from his trip with sixteen cases of twenty three oh nine. A very good year. 
MARTOK: An even better vintage than the one my wife sent me. 
O'BRIEN: Well, I'm glad you approve. 
NOG: And remember, anytime you're shopping for wines or spirits, my cousin Gant is the man to see. 
WORF: We will keep that in mind. 
O'BRIEN: Your cousin Gant? 
NOG: Just another sailor on the Great River. By the way, Gant mentioned that he's got ten cases of Saurian brandy. It's the Captain's favourite, you know. 
O'BRIEN: Level Five. What does he want for them? 
[Kira's quarters]
ODO: I don't think I'll ever forget the look on his face when he died. He seemed so content. 
KIRA: The last thing he saw was one of his gods smiling at him. If you ask me, he was a lucky man. 
ODO: Nerys, please. 
KIRA: No, listen to me. I know to Starfleet the Prophets are nothing more than wormhole aliens, but to me they're gods. I can't prove it, but then again, I don't have tom because my faith in them is enough. Just as Weyoun's faith in you was enough for him. 
ODO: Well, now it appears that the Vorta may have to learn to get along without their gods. 
KIRA: I'm sorry. You're worried about your people. 
ODO: The changelings are dying and I can't help them. They're the enemy. 
KIRA: A very dangerous enemy, now more than ever, because they're also desperate. This isn't easy for you, but you have to remember they started this war, not you. 
ODO: That's true. But I know now that whichever side wins, one thing is certain. I'm going to lose. 

