Episode Number: 559
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Covenant
Covenant
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 23 Nov, 1998
[Quark's]
QUARK: What can I get for you? 
EZRI: A Til'amin froth for me. 
BASHIR: Romulan ale, Quark. 
ODO: A glass of springwine. 
QUARK: Since when do you drink springwine, or anything else, for that matter? 
ODO: It's for Kira. She should be getting out of services any minute now. 
BASHIR: Well, here she is. 
ODO: How was it? 
KIRA: Beautiful. Ranjen Telna gave a very moving sermon. 
EZRI: What was it about? 
KIRA: About how important it is to forgive the people who've wronged you. 
ODO: Two hours on forgiveness? 
BASHIR: It's a complicated subject, Odo. 
KIRA: What's wrong? 
ODO: Nothing. It's just that you spend so much time in services that sometimes it makes me wish I were a believer so that we could go together. 
EZRI: That's so sweet. 
KIRA: I would love for you to come with me, but I don't think you'll get much out of it if you don't believe in the Prophets. 
ODO: Perhaps if I had an Orb experience? 
KIRA: It doesn't work like that. Faith has to come first. 
ODO: That's too bad. I have a feeling it must be very comforting to believe in something more powerful than yourself. 
BASHIR: If you really feel that way, there are other faiths. 
EZRI: Would it bother you if Odo believed in Klingon religion? 
KIRA: Not if he got something out of it. 
BASHIR: He'd get to eat the hearts of his enemies. 
EZRI: And go to Sto'Vo'Kor when he dies. 
BASHIR: You can go on a vision quest.;
ODO: But then I wouldn't get to go to services with Kira, would I. That's the whole point. 
EZRI: That really is so sweet. 
[Kira's quarters]
(Kira is reading when the doorbell rings.) 
KIRA: Yes. Vedek Fala. 
FALA: Nerys. 
KIRA: What a surprise. What are you doing here? 
FALA: Well, I came to see you. 
KIRA: Well come in, sit down. Let me get you some tea. When I contacted the University they told you were on a spiritual retreat. 
FALA: Ah, you know me, always searching for answers. 
KIRA: That's what makes you different from all the other vedeks I known. To you, faith is a journey. 
FALA: Thank you. And one that never ends. Oh, you're a Colonel now. It seems like only yesterday you were just a little girl, squirming in your chair during instruction. 
KIRA: Chair? We didn't have any chairs at the camp. We sat on the floor. 
FALA: Which was good for discipline and made me seem more imposing. 
KIRA: Oh, as if you needed the help. Nerys, what are the three keys to enlightenment? 
FALA: And the answer? 
KIRA: Charity, humility and faith. 
FALA: You remember. 
KIRA: You were a good teacher. Without you, I'm not sure I would have survived that camp. 
FALA: I brought you something. 
KIRA: What is it? 
(She takes a small crystal from the bag. It glows as Kira holds it, then she's beamed out.) 
[Empok Nor Temple]
(The area that is Quark's on DS9. Kira beams in to be greeted by Bajorans wearing red arm bands.) 
BRIN: Welcome to Empok Nor. 
KIRA: Empok Nor? That's impossible. 
BRIN: I know it's a long way from Deep Space Nine, but this transponder allowed us to beam you here. 
KIRA: Those red armbands. You're members of the Pah wraith cult? 
BRIN: We worship the True Prophets, yes. 
KIRA: Why did you bring me here? 
BRIN: That is a question best answered by the Master. 
KIRA: And who exactly is the Master? 
DUKAT: I am. 
KIRA: Dukat. You? You're the leader of the Pah wraith cult? 
DUKAT: I'm sure you have many questions, Nerys, and I intend to answer them all. Leave us, please. First of all, let me apologise for bringing you here without your permission. 
KIRA: Oh, it's all right, I always wanted to see Empok Nor. Is the Dominion aware that you've set up a temple here? 
DUKAT: Oh, this station has been abandoned a long time. There's no reason why they'd object to us putting it to use. Your hair. You changed it. 
KIRA: Your ear. You pierced it. 
DUKAT: A symbol of the Covenant I've made with my new family. 
KIRA: Your new family. Well, it makes sense that these people would choose you as their leader. They worship evil. 
DUKAT: The Pah wraiths are not what you think, Nerys, and neither am I. Let me ask you something. Have you ever wondered why the Prophets stood by and did nothing when Cardassia took over Bajor? Have you ever asked yourself how they could allow your people to suffer as they did? 
KIRA: The Prophets have a plan for us. It's not always easy to see what it is. 
DUKAT: Even as you speak those words, you must know how hollow they sound. No, there's a much better explanation. One that makes perfect sense. The Prophets are not the true gods of Bajor, the Pah wraiths are. They were cast from the Celestial Temple because they wanted to take an active role in Bajoran life. Their only crime was that they cared about your people. But they were not allowed to help you because they'd lost the battle for heaven and were forced to flee. 
KIRA: So I guess the ancient texts just had it all wrong, then. 
DUKAT: Oh, come now, Nerys. You know as well as I do that history is written by the victors. But rest assured, there will be another chapter. The Pah wraiths are determined to reclaim their place in heaven. 
KIRA: And how would you know that? 
DUKAT: They speak to me in visions. I am their Emissary. 
KIRA: I don't know whether you believe what you're saying, or if you're faking it, or if you're just insane. 
DUKAT: I have touched by the hand of a god. I'm a changed man. Oh, I admit that when I first allowed myself to become a vessel for the Pah wraith, it was purely out of self-serving reasons. All I wanted was to help it enter the wormhole so it could force the Prophets out. It was nothing more than a way to exact vengeance on Sisko. But I had no idea the effect it would have on me. It was only inside of me for a very short time, but it opened my heart. 
KIRA: Would that be before or after you killed Jadzia? 
DUKAT: That was most unfortunate, but it couldn't be helped. The Celestial Temple itself was at stake and she was in the way. Ah, Nerys, Nerys. I wish I had the words to describe what it was like to have the Pah wraith within me. I could feel its love, for me and for the Bajoran people. It made me realise I still have a role to play in Bajor's destiny. 
KIRA: You mean besides overseeing an occupation that killed tens of millions? 
DUKAT: You have no idea how much it pains me to know that I caused so much suffering. But I am not responsible for the occupation, the Prophets are. 
KIRA: You have no right to say that. 
DUKAT: They abandoned Bajor. I was simply walking the path they laid out for me. Now I walk with the true Prophets. I'm building a community here, Nerys. I brought these people to Empok Nor so that we could purify ourselves in preparation for the day the Pah wraiths reclaim the Celestial Temple. 
KIRA: And what's supposed to happen when that day comes? 
DUKAT: The Pah wraiths have a plan. When the time is right, they will reveal it to me. 
KIRA: Something tells me their plan involves you being ruler of Bajor again. 
DUKAT: You're still so full of anger toward me. I can only hope that one day you'll let it go. I brought you here because I want you to be a part of our community. I want you to share in the love these people have for one other. In the love they have for me. 
KIRA: Oh, they don't love you. You have some kind of a hold over them, but they don't love you. 
DUKAT: Nerys, open your heart to me. We're bound together by destiny. You belong at my side. 
[Kira's quarters]
(O'Brien is scanning Kira's quarters when Sisko and Odo enter.) 
SISKO: Chief. When did you realise she was missing? 
ODO: This morning. She usually comes by my office before going to Ops. 
SISKO: Did you check the entry log? 
ODO: She had a visitor sometime after nineteen hundred hours. Whoever it was only stayed about ten minutes. 
(Worf enters.) 
SISKO: Anything, Mister Worf? 
WORF: According to the Ops report, only one ship has left the station since last night. The morning transport to Bajor. Kira was not aboard. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, I'm picking up traces of tachyon energy. 
ODO: A transporter beam? 
O'BRIEN: With a Dominion signature. 
ODO: Any chance of tracing it? 
O'BRIEN: Afraid not. The signal's already dissipated. 
SISKO: Their transporters operate over longer distances than ours. What's their maximum range? 
WORF: If the homing transponder was in place, up to three light years. 
O'BRIEN: There was a homing transponder, all right. It was wrapped in this. 
ODO: Three light years. For all we know, she could be deep inside Dominion space by now. 
[Empok Nor guest quarters]
(The door is locked. Kira thumps it in anger. A few moments later, Fala enters.) 
KIRA: I had a feeling you'd turn up sooner or later. 
FALA: I know you're angry with me. 
KIRA: Angry? I feel sorry for you. Letting yourself be duped by Dukat into joining this cult. 
FALA: I was a member of this cult, as you call it, long before Dukat. I came to it toward the end of the occupation. It's helped me make sense of the suffering we all had to endure. 
KIRA: In the camp, you kept us together. It was your faith in the Prophets that got us through. How could you of all people would turn your back on them? 
FALA: They turned their backs on us long ago. 
KIRA: The path the Prophets laid out for us isn't always easy, but that's no reason to turn to hate and fear. 
FALA: Hate and fear. You know how often I've heard those words used to describe us? Nothing could be further from the truth. 
KIRA: The Pah wraith cult tried to kill the Emissary. 
FALA: Dukat had nothing to do with that. The boy who attacked Captain Sisko was acting out of his own misguided beliefs. We're a peaceful people. 
KIRA: Then prove it. Let me go. 
FALA: Nerys, the Master brought you here because he cares about your spiritual well being. 
KIRA: The Master. He's using you. He's taking your beliefs and twisting them to suit his own purpose. 
FALA: You're so stubborn. That's always been your problem. 
KIRA: Your problem is you're too trusting. 
FALA: When Dukat first came to us, I didn't want to accept him. But I came to realise the Pah wraiths had taken this man of evil and washed him clean. What could be more wondrous than that? 
KIRA: How can you forget all the friends we lost during the occupation? How can you forget all the millions Dukat murdered? 
FALA: You disappoint me, Nerys. Of all the things I tried to teach you, the most important is the need to forgive. 
KIRA: Some things can't be forgiven. 
FALA: Let me show you how we live. I want you to see the community we're building here so you'll know you have nothing to fear from Dukat, or from us. 
[Empok Nor Promenade - upper level]
(A man is welding the railing.) 
FALA: Only one of the fusion generators is operational, so we don't have power for things like replicators. 
KIRA: Where do you get your food? 
FALA: We've turned several of the lower levels into hydroponic bays. 
KIRA: What about things like medical supplies? Do you bring them from Bajor? 
FALA: We have a few cargo shuttles. We're well aware that you may try and leave us, so you should know that the docking bays are being guarded, as is the transporter we used to bring you here. 
{Empok Nor Promenade]
(Down the stairs.) 
KIRA: As long as we're on the subject, am I free to move around, talk to people? 
FALA: Of course. It's the Master's hope that you will come to see this as your home. Mika, this is Nerys. 
MIKA: (very pregnant) Welcome. 
KIRA: You're getting close. 
MIKA: It could be any time now. 
FALA: Mika and her husband have the honour of being the first to receive the Master's blessing to bear children. 
KIRA: You have to get permission from Dukat to have a baby? 
FALA: Vows of abstinence are part of our covenant with him. Exceptions are granted only when he sees that a husband and wife have demonstrated a true spiritual bond. 
KIRA: Oh, I see. 
FALA: But you don't approve. In ancient times, Bajorans understood the value of denying worldly pleasures. Ironic, isn't it, that a Cardassian would be the one to lead us back to the old ways? 
KIRA: Especially a Cardassian whose appetite for worldly pleasures is legendary. 
FALA: That was a long time ago, before he felt the kiss of the Pah wraith. 
KIRA: That was some kiss. 
[Empok Nor Cargo bay]
(An artist is painting Dukat as adored Messiah.) 
FALA: Striking, isn't it? Benyan is Mika's husband. 
KIRA: Oh, congratulations. I understand it isn't easy to get permission to have a baby. 
BENYAN: The Master told us you wouldn't approve of our ways. He said we should be patient with you. 
KIRA: Don't go out of your way. 
BENYAN: I don't understand why he brought you here. 
FALA: Benyan. 
KIRA: No, it's all right. 
BENYAN: We all work very hard for what we have. We don't need you or anyone else to approve of us. 
KIRA: Fair enough. 
BENYAN: Don't misunderstand. I hope you come to feel the love of the Pah wraiths. But if you don't, it's your loss. No offence. 
KIRA: None taken. In fact, I've always found that when people try to convince others of their beliefs it's because they're really just trying to convince themselves. 
BENYAN: I know what I believe. 
KIRA: And that's what scares me. No offence. 
[Empok Nor Temple]
ALL: ba'ja kor'ek, no'la ba'lani, pah'nom ko'se plusso ma'kora. Ba'ja kor'ek, no'la ba'lani, pah'nom ko'se plusso ma'kora. 
DUKAT: Kosst no'valt Amojan, my children. 
ALL: Kosst no'valt Amojan. 
DUKAT: Let us open our hearts and pray. 
ALL: Ba'ja kor'ek, no'la ba'lani, pah'nom ko'se plusso ma'kora. Ba'ja kor'ek, no'la ba'lani, pah'nom ko'se plusso ma'kora. 
(Most people have their eyes closed. Kira gets the phaser from the welder's belt.) 
KIRA: Don't. Dukat. Stay where you are. The rest of you get down on the floor. I said down on the floor! 
(Benyan steps in front of Dukat.) 
KIRA: Step aside. 
BENYAN: No. 
(Others step up to form a protective wall in front of Dukat.) 
FALA: Enough, Nerys, unless you're willing to kill us all. 
(She tries to back out to the Promenade but gets knocked out from behind.) 
DUKAT: Now do you understand how much they love me? 
[Empok Nor - Dukat's quarters]
(Dukat is tending to her, and has partly undressed her.) 
DUKAT: Careful, no sudden moves. 
(Kira gets up and grabs her jacket.) 
DUKAT: I removed it so I could tend to your bruise. I had a meal prepared for you. Come now, Nerys, you haven't eaten anything since you arrived. I know what you're thinking. But really, what good would it do to try to kill me? Even if you succeeded, it wouldn't get you off Empok Nor. You'd only make a martyr of me. 
KIRA: You're right. I don't want anything to happen to you. Not until your followers have a chance to see what a fraud you are. 
DUKAT: I love these people, Nerys. And they love me. I should think that after what just happened in the temple, you'd realise that. 
KIRA: It always comes back to that, doesn't it, Dukat? Your desperate need to win the love of the Bajoran people. You just never understood why we didn't appreciate you. 
DUKAT: If it hadn't been for me, the occupation would've been much worse. 
KIRA: And you want a thank you? You were working people to death in the ore processing centre, but that didn't stop you from strutting around Terok Nor, picking out Bajoran women to take to your bed and actually believing that they wanted to be there. 
DUKAT: Your mother did want to be there. 
KIRA: You took her away from her children. She did what she had to so that we could survive. 
DUKAT: She loved me. 
KIRA: Maybe she convinced herself that she did, which is a very different thing. 
DUKAT: Perhaps you're right. And if I did indeed cause your mother any pain, I deeply regret it. Just as I regret many things I did in those years. That's why I'm so glad the Pah wraiths have given me an opportunity to redeem myself in the eyes of your people. 
KIRA: How? By recreating some kind of idealised version of the occupation? Because that's what you've done here. You have your station back, Bajorans to serve your every whim. And the best part is, this time they really do love you. As misguided as that is, they love you. 
DUKAT: I'm so glad you're here, Nerys. You embody everything I admire most about the Bajoran people. Your passion, your spirit. I can see now why the Pah wraiths want you at my side. 
KIRA: And why's that? 
DUKAT: Because if I can open your heart to them, then surely I can open the heart of any Bajoran. Your anger is a challenge. I welcome it. Because in the end, it will only help me better serve the Pah wraiths. 
(doorbell.) 
DUKAT: Yes. 
BRIN: It's Mika. She's gone into labour. 
DUKAT: Come, Nerys. I want you to be a witness at this blessed event. 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
(There's a big crowd outside.) 
DUKAT: Ah, this is a great day for us, Benyan. You should be honoured to have fathered the first child born to our community. 
BENYAN: I only hope that Mika and I can live up to the faith you've shown in us. 
DUKAT: I have no doubt that you will. Your family will be the first of many. Think of it. Someday, Empok Nor will ring with the laughter of children. 
FALA: You don't approve, Nerys. 
KIRA: Not of children being raised to follow the Pah wraiths. You can bet that I don't approve. 
FALA: This is a special moment. I'm not going to ruin it by arguing with you. You believe the Prophets are the true gods of Bajor, I believe the Pah wraiths are. Let's just leave it at that. 
KIRA: I'd be happy to. There's just one thing. We can't both be right. (Mika is wheeled out on a bed, holding her new-born and looking solemn. Benyan goes over and sees that the baby has Cardassian features. Then Dukat has a look. He takes the baby from Mika.) 
DUKAT: The Pah wraiths! They've sent us a sign. My children, good news. Something wondrous has happened. This infant, born of the love between Benyan and Mika, was transformed in her womb into a living symbol of the covenant I made with you. Oh, what a blessed day this is. There can no longer be any doubt that the Pah wraiths are smiling upon us. Let us give thanks and praise. 
ALL: Ka'li bor'ek, no'ma ten'su, fah jah nori bentu'sa. Ka'li bor'ek, no'ma ten'su, fah jah nori bentu'sa. Ka'li bor'ek, no'ma ten'su, fah jah nori bentu'sa. Ka'li bor'ek, 
[Empok Nor Temple]
KIRA: Fala, I don't understand this. You're an intelligent man. How can you believe Dukat's story? It's obvious he's the child's father. 
FALA: What's obvious is you hate him so much, you can't even entertain the possibility that a miracle has occurred. 
KIRA: Are you so blind that you will just believe anything he says? 
FALA: I have faith. I would think you'd understand what that means. Nerys, is it beyond the realm of possibility that the Pah wraiths have sent us this child as a sign? They have powers beyond our understanding. Your Prophets made an entire fleet of Dominion ships vanish into thin air. What's one child compared to a miracle like that? 
KIRA: You know to know what the miracle is? That Mika didn't breaking into tears in front of her husband. She was terrified he wasn't going to believe Dukat's little performance. I could see it in her eyes. 
FALA: You saw what you wanted to see. 
KIRA: If you believe that this really is a miracle, then you'll let me talk to the happy couple. What's wrong? Afraid of finding out the truth? 
FALA: I know the truth. I just don't want you making unfounded accusations. 
KIRA: I'll be discreet. 
[Empok Nor Cargo bay]
(The painting has a little more detail.) 
FALA: It's coming along nicely. 
KIRA: Maybe you should make one of the children half Cardassian. To commemorate what happened. 
BENYAN: If I'd known, I would have. 
KIRA: It must be quite an honour to be part of such a miraculous event. 
BENYAN: It is. 
KIRA: Obviously Dukat did the right thing in giving his permission for you to have a baby. 
BENYAN: We prayed together many times. He wanted to be sure. 
KIRA: Did you ever pray with him alone? 
BENYAN: Yes. 
KIRA: Did Mika? 
BENYAN: Yes. 
FALA: Nerys, let's let Benyan get back to work. 
[Empok Nor Promenade]
KIRA: I want to find Mika. FALA: When we do, I trust you'll be more discreet than you were with Benyan. 
[Empok Nor Airlock]
MIKA: I'm sorry. 
DUKAT: Why didn't you tell me the baby was mine? 
MIKA: I didn't know. I was hoping it wasn't. 
DUKAT: Mika, I'm so sorry about what happened that night. I was weak and you were so beautiful. 
MIKA: I've forgiven you. You know that. 
DUKAT: Have you told anyone? 
MIKA: No. 
DUKAT: Not even Benyan? 
MIKA: He wants to believe it was a miracle, but I know he has doubts. If he ever asks me, I don't know if I can lie to him. 
[Empok Nor Corridor]
KIRA: Thank you. He said Mika went this way. 
[Empok Nor Airlock]
DUKAT: Don't worry. Everything is going to be all right. Wait here until I'm gone, then go back to you quarters and pray for strength. 
(Dukat shuts the airlock and opens the space door. Mika hangs on as the air rushes out, then reaches to Dukat before passing out.) 
KIRA [OC]: Mika? Mika? 
(Dukat is gone with Kira sees Mika on the floor of the airlock.) 
KIRA: Mika. 
(Kira shuts the space door.) 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
MIDWIFE: You got to her just in time. 
(Dukat enters.) 
DUKAT: How is she? 
MIDWIFE: The depressurisation caused swelling in her meningeal tissues. I'm going to keep her sedated until morning. 
DUKAT: But she will recover? 
MIDWIFE: She'll be fine. 
DUKAT: Brin. Seal the docking ring. Check all the airlocks. Let's make sure we never have another accident like this again. 
KIRA: An accident? What happened, Dukat? Was Mika going to tell everyone that you're the father of her child? 
FALA: Kira. 
KIRA: Is that why you tried to kill her? 
FALA: Enough. 
DUKAT: Fala, it's all right. Nerys is obviously upset. She doesn't know what she's saying. 
KIRA: Mika isn't going to lie for you anymore. 
DUKAT: Take her to her quarters. She needs to rest. 
(As Kira is dragged away.) 
KIRA: Keep him away from her. 
DUKAT: Let us pray for Mika's recovery. Ka'la mo'sek, teru benso, Kosst Amojan 
[Empok Nor Dukat's quarters]
(Dukat is praying to his gods.) 
DUKAT: I failed you. Forgive my weakness. Forgive me for letting temptation obscure the path you've laid out for me. When Mika awakes, and I pray she does, your children will learn the truth. They will turn away from me. They will turn away from you. The covenant will be broken. Don't let that happen. Tell me what to do. Please. Please. 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
(The bell is being rung.) 
MIDWIFE: It's not time for services. 
BENYAN: I'll stay with her if you want to go. 
MIDWIFE: No. You go. 
[Empok Nor Temple]
DUKAT: Kosst no'valt Amojan, my children. 
ALL: Kosst no'valt Amojan. 
DUKAT: Tonight, as I prayed, the Pah wraiths sent me a vision. They told me it would be the last I'd ever receive from them. There's a reason. A wondrous reason. My children, the Pah wraiths have asked us to join them 
[Empok Nor guest quarters]
DUKAT [OC]: In their Holy quest to reclaim the Celestial Temple. To become warriors in this great battle 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
DUKAT [OC]: We must transform ourselves. 
[Empok Nor Temple]
DUKAT: Our corporeal bodies are not suitable for the task, so we must leave them behind. In a few hours, at the beginning of a new day, we will gather together here for the last time. We will shed the flesh that ties us to this world and deliver ourselves 
[Empok Nor guest quarters]
DUKAT [OC]: Into the waiting arms of the Pah wraiths. 
[Empok Nor Temple]
FALA: Ka'li bor'ek, no'ma ten'su, fah jah nori bentu'sa. 
ALL: Ka'li bor'ek, no'ma ten'su, fah jah nori bentu'sa. 
[Empok Nor guest quarters]
ALL [OC]: Ka'li bor'ek, no'ma ten'su, fah jah nori bentu'sa. Ka'li bor'ek, no'ma ten'su, fah jah nori bentu'sa. 
(After the break.) 
DUKAT: I've sent a message to Deep Space Nine. They should be able to get someone here for you within a day or so. 
KIRA: I know you're desperate to keep your followers from turning against you. I'm not surprised you'd kill them. But I can't believe you'd be willing to die yourself. 
DUKAT: You just don't understand, Nerys. The Pah wraiths are calling me home. You should be happy. 
KIRA: Happy? Fifty people are going to die. 
DUKAT: I assure you, our deaths will be painless. 
(Dukat holds up a tablet.) 
DUKAT: Promazine. Developed by the Obsidian Order for its operatives to use in case of capture. Not only is death swift, but it reduces the body to dust within hours, making it unidentifiable to the enemy. Dust. That's all that will remain of my passage through this misbegotten universe, Nerys. But it doesn't bother me because I know I'm going to be with the Pah wraiths. 
KIRA: You really believe that. 
DUKAT: Goodbye, Nerys. 
[Empok Nor Temple]
(The faithful collect their poison pills from bowls either side of the altar, including one for the new-born.) 
[Empok Nor guest quarters]
(Kira is pulling the door mechanism apart.) 
[Empok Nor Temple]
DUKAT: My children, the time has come for us to leave this world behind us. 
(Kira plugs a fibre optic into the portable light and blows her door open.) 
DUKAT: As we embark on this journey, our hearts are not heavy, but joyful. Because we know we'll be together in the holy light of the Pah wraiths. 
[Empok Nor Promenade - upper level]
DUKAT [OC]: This is a great day for us. We have proven ourselves worthy of the Pah wraiths 
[Empok Nor Temple]
DUKAT: And they are calling us home. This is the means of our deliverance. 
(Kira is on the first floor, looking down.) 
DUKAT: Kosst no'valt Amojan, my children. 
ALL: Kosst no'valt Amojan. 
DUKAT: Be not afraid. I love you all. 
KIRA: Dukat! 
MAN: Stop her! 
(Kira jumps down onto Dukat, knocking him and the bowl of pills over. He drops his own pill amongst them.) 
KIRA: Don't you see why he's doing this? He doesn't want you to find out the truth! 
(Dukat is scrabbling on the floor trying to find his special pill. Fala pulls him up.) 
FALA: Are you all right? Everyone, please. Let us not allow anything to disturb this holy moment. 
(Fala offers him a pill from the other bowl.) 
KIRA: What's wrong, Dukat? Take it. They're all the same, aren't they? 
(Doubt spreads amongst the congregation.) 
DUKAT: My children, listen to me. 
KIRA: Tell them, Dukat. Tell them you never had any intention of dying with them. 
DUKAT: My time here is not finished. The Pah wraiths want me to continue bringing others into their light. 
BENYAN: This is his child. That's why you tried to kill Mika. 
(Benyan throws his pill at Dukat, and others follow.) 
DUKAT: The Pah wraiths have forgiven my sins. They've given me their absolution. Who are you to presume they're wrong? Who are you to judge me? Then it's done. Our covenant is broken. 
(Dukat pulls off his earring.) 
DUKAT: None of you will ever know the love of the Pah wraiths. None of you! 
BENYAN: False gods! 
(Dukat beams out and the crowd goes silent. Fala sits down and takes his pill.) 
KIRA: Fala, no! Why? 
FALA: Faith, Nerys. Faith. 
[Defiant mess hall]
ODO: I'm sorry about Vedek Fala. 
KIRA: I keep going over what he said when he died and I don't know if he was trying to tell me if he never lost his faith or that he felt betrayed by it. 
ODO: I suppose you'll never know. But one thing is certain. These people have been betrayed and now they have to find a way to pick up the pieces and move on. 
KIRA: I thought Dukat was just claiming to share their faith because he wanted them to love him. But it was more than that. He's changed. 
ODO: If you hadn't stopped him, he would've killed them all, and no one would have known his body wasn't among the remains. That sounds like the same old Dukat to me. 
KIRA: I know this is going to sound crazy, but I think Dukat convinced himself that he was doing what the Pah wraiths wanted. 
ODO: Who knows? Maybe he was. 
KIRA: Either way, he believes. And that makes him more dangerous than ever. 

