Episode Number: 467
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Die Is Cast
The Die Is Cast
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 1 May, 1995
Last time on Deep Space Nine.
BASHIR: Bashir to Infirmary. Medical emergency on the Promenade. 
ODO: I find it odd that a conduit running behind Garak's shop should just happen to overload. 
SISKO: Why would the Romulans want to destroy the Flaxian's ship? 
ODO: One possibility is that the Romulans hired the Flaxian to kill Garak and then killed the Flaxian when he failed in his mission. 
SISKO: Do you know why the Romulans might hire someone to kill you? 
GARAK: I have no idea. 
INFORMANT: You are investigating a very insignificant piece of a much larger puzzle. 
ODO: What do you mean? 
INFORMANT: There's been a great deal of unusual Romulan activity these past weeks. 
ODO: Now, you dragged me into this investigation and you are now going to cooperate with me. 
GARAK: Dragged you in? I don't know what you're talking 
ODO: You blew up your own shop, Garak! 
ODO: It's a Romulan warbird. 
GARAK: In Cardassian space? 
ODO: You're going to attack the Dominion, aren't you. You're going to stage a first strike against them before they can come into the Alpha Quadrant. 
TAIN: I'm asking you to serve Cardassia again, by my side. 
ODO: Garak, this is the man who put you into exile. This is the man who just two days ago tried to have you killed. 
GARAK: Yes, he is. But it doesn't matter. I'm back. 
(Garak and Tain shake hands.) 
And now the conclusion. 
[Replimat]
(O'Brien is eating his soup heartily whilst Bashir holds forth on a topic of 'conversation'.) 
BASHIR I mean, if you ask me, modern theatre has been on the decline since the late twenty third century. Just look at the plays to have come out of Earth in the last fifty years and compare them to the works of Willemheld, or Barton or Chow-yun. 
(O'Brien points at something on Bashir's untouched plate.) 
BASHIR: Yes, yes. 
(O'Brien takes the bread and keeps eating.) 
BASHIR: Modern playwrights have become obsessed with writing human interpretations of alien theatrical works while ignoring completely our own unique cultural heritage in hopes of. Chief, are you listening to me? 
O'BRIEN: What? 
BASHIR: I thought so. 
O'BRIEN: I heard every word you said. 
BASHIR: And what do you think? 
O'BRIEN: About what? 
BASHIR: Any of it. 
O'BRIEN: I don't know. Look, what do you want me to say? 
BASHIR: Say you agree. Say you disagree. Say you hate theatre. Just say something. 
O'BRIEN: Look, Julian, you said you wanted to have lunch. We're having lunch. 
BASHIR: Yes, but I was hoping for a little more conversation with my plomeek soup. 
O'BRIEN: Ah. My mother taught me if you combine eating and talking, you'll end up doing neither very well. 
BASHIR: Well, I suppose Garak taught me to think of lunch as a sort of arena for philosophical debate. I take it there's still no word about Garak and Odo? 
O'BRIEN: The starship Portland and a Cardassian cruiser are still searching the Algira Sector for the runabout. That's not entirely bad news. If the runabout had been destroyed they would have found debris by now, or something to 
KIRA [OC]: Kira to O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Go ahead, Major. 
KIRA [OC]: Report to Ops, Chief. There's something here we'd like you to take a look at. 
O'BRIEN: I'm on my way. 
[Ops]
SISKO: About ten minutes ago, our sensors picked up high concentrations of tetryon particles moving toward the station. 
DAX: I've never seen readings like these. What do you think? 
O'BRIEN: Subspace energy fluctuations, quantum fractures in the electrodynamic field, EM spikes across the spectrum? You've got me. 
KIRA: Whatever it is, it's getting closer. 
DAX: And larger. The tetryon concentrations have increased ten percent in the last thirty seconds. There's an energy surge bearing two one zero mark three one five. A ship is decloaking. It's a Romulan warbird. 
SISKO: Romulans? Open a channel 
DAX: Another warbird decloaking at zero one zero. No. It's a Cardassian ship. 
KIRA: A Cardassian ship with a cloaking device? 
DAX: Definitely Cardassian, Keldon class. Benjamin, there's an entire fleet decloaking out there. 
SISKO: Red alert. All hands to battle stations. Shields up, stand by weapons. Try to hail them, Lieutenant. 
O'BRIEN: Their weapons are charged but they haven't locked onto us yet. 
KIRA: The lead ship's heading for the wormhole, Commander. 
DAX: No response to our hails. 
KIRA: The fleet's following the lead ship. They're headed for the Gamma Quadrant. 
SISKO: Lieutenant, open a priority channel to Starfleet Command now. 
[Warbird Ready room]
TAIN: you should have seen the look on Legate Porania's face when I told him I was going into retirement three years ago. He was literally speechless. A rare event. 
GARAK: I remember wanting to invent charges of treason against him just so I wouldn't have to hear his voice again. 
TAIN: And you would have, too, if I hadn't held you back. You had quite a vicious streak in those days. 
GARAK: Oh, I learned from the best. 
TAIN: No, no. You had a gift. I never met anyone else who relished a good interrogation as much as you did. Do you remember getting that confession out of Doctor Parmak? 
GARAK: I never even touched him. 
TAIN: That was the beauty of it. You just sat there for what, three hours? 
GARAK: Four. 
TAIN: And after four hours of watching you stare at him, he confessed. 
GARAK: I was good, wasn't I? 
TAIN: You were brilliant. Afterwards, he just kept saying, 'His eyes his eyes.' I've missed you, Elim. Things just haven't been the same since you left. 
GARAK: I've missed you too, Enabran. 
TAIN: We're both getting sentimental in our old age. Next thing you know, we'll be crying over our lost youth. 
GARAK: So whatever happened to Doctor Parmak? 
TAIN: He spent three years in a labour camp, then returned to Cardassia Prime. I think he's practicing medicine again. When we get back, you should look him up. 
GARAK: Oh, there are a number of people I intend to look up when we get back. For instance, do you remember a Gul named Dukat? 
TAIN: Dukat? Oh, yes. The business with the arms merchant. I take it you'd like to have him eliminated? 
GARAK: The thought had crossed my mind. 
TAIN: When this mission is completed, you'll be in a position to eliminate anyone you want. 
GARAK: I'll make up a list and give it to Mila. 
TAIN: Perhaps you'd better give it to me personally. Mila may not be around much longer. She knows a great deal about me. Too much for her own good. 
GARAK: Still, it would be a shame to have her killed. She's proven that she can be trusted on numerous occasions, and you'd be hard put to find a better housekeeper. 
TAIN: Is this a request I hear? 
GARAK: Not at all. Just an observation. 
TAIN: No reason to pretend, Garak. You're fond of Mila. You don't want her hurt, right? 
GARAK: If you're looking for an excuse to spare the life of your own housekeeper, you don't need me to provide you with one. You can do it out of the kindness of your heart. 
TAIN: Mila always believed you were innocent of betraying Cardassia, and me. 
GARAK: I was. 
TAIN: Of course. (they drink) No wonder the Romulans can't conquered the galaxy. No one can stomach their cuisine. 
(A Tal Shiar officer enters.) 
TAIN: Ah. Colonel Lovok. Allow me to introduce my associate, Elim Garak. 
LOVOK: And what is his role to be in this operation? 
TAIN: He will do whatever I require of him. Elim is a cherished colleague of long standing. 
LOVOK: You will not enter the bridge or any other secured space aboard this ship unescorted. If you do so, you will be killed. 
GARAK: Direct, isn't he? 
TAIN: I'm afraid the Colonel believes in wasting little time with pleasantries or idle conversation. 
LOVOK: The fleet has recloaked and is about to set course for the Founders' homeworld at warp six. 
GARAK: Warp six? That's a bit slow, isn't it? Something wrong with your engines? 
LOVOK: If we travel any faster, our warp signatures may be detected by the Jem'Hadar, even through the cloaking devices. 
GARAK: Very clever. 
LOVOK: The changeling is in quarters on C deck. There are forcefields in place to prevent his escape. 
TAIN: Good. Which brings us to your first assignment, Garak. I want you to explain to Odo that it would be in everyone's best interest, especially his, if he were to provide us with all the information he has on his people. 
GARAK: That may prove difficult. He can be quite stubborn. 
TAIN: Then you'll have to find a way of convincing him. 
[Warbird - Odo's quarters]
GARAK: Well, Odo. I trust the accommodations meet with your approval? You have to admit, it's certainly better than a prison cell. 
ODO: There are forcefields around the bulkheads and a guard outside the door. Feels like a prison cell to me. 
GARAK: I see your point. And believe me, if it were my decision, things would be 
ODO: I don't believe you, Garak, and I doubt I'll believe much of what you have to say from now on, so save us both some trouble and leave me alone. 
GARAK: Why, Constable, you seem positively disappointed in me. Well, I suppose it's understandable. After all, I did pledge my undying devotion and eternal allegiance to both you and the Federation. And you and I have been through so much together, shared many experiences, and I know you considered me a close friend. No wonder you feel betrayed. 
ODO: You're wasting your time, Garak. I don't care about the rationalisations you come up with to justify your actions. 
GARAK: Justify? I don't need to justify anything to you. 
ODO: Living on Deep Space Nine has made you a little rusty. Your lies are becoming more transparent. You should be careful. You don't want Tain to know that you're feeling guilty about what you've done. 
GARAK: You are imaginative, Constable, I'll grant you that. But I would suggest that you put those creative powers to better use. We would like you to share your unique insights on the Founders. 
ODO: Would you? 
GARAK: We would be grateful, most grateful, for any information you could provide. 
ODO: And if I refuse? 
GARAK: Oh, really, Odo. You really must stop reading those human crime novels Chief O'Brien gives you. It's poisoning your thinking. I'm not here to threaten you. I just want to talk. 
ODO: I don't feel like talking. 
GARAK: Surely you can see that we share a common enemy, the Founders. By cooperating, you'll be helping us provide security for the entire Alpha Quadrant. 
ODO: The only common enemy you and I share is Enabran Tain. The difference between you and I is that you don't know it. 
GARAK: I suggest that you think over what I've said, Constable. 
ODO: Funny. I was about to make the same suggestion. 
[Wardroom]
TAIN [on monitor]: Since the Jem'Hadar are genetically addicted to a drug that only the Founders can provide, we expect the Jem'Hadar to weaken and die once their supplies of the drug run out. A matter of days by our estimates. However, that will give them enough time to stage some kind of counterattack against the Alpha Quadrant, so I suggest you place the Cardassian fleet on alert. I take this action not in defiance of the Cardassian state, but in defence of it. You in the Central Command have neglected the security of our people and allowed peace with Bajor and the Federation to blind you to the real threat, the Dominion. I intend to remove that threat. Let history be my judge. 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: That message was intercepted by a Federation outpost earlier today. A similar message was sent to the Romulan Senate. Now, both governments are denying any prior knowledge of Tain's plans and calling this a rogue operation. 
BASHIR: Are they going to do anything to stop Tain? 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: Both the Romulans and the Cardassians claim to be studying ways to stop Tain, but we believe that they'll just sit back and wait to see if he succeeds or not. 
DAX: But sir, that could plunge Romulus and Cardassia into war with the Dominion. 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: Only if he fails, Lieutenant. His plan looks like it has a fair chance of success. He's commanding a fleet of twenty ships manned by combat veterans. They know the location of the Founders' homeworld and they've modified their cloaks so the Jem'Hadar can't detect their approach. 
KIRA: It sounds like you're hoping Tain will succeed. 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: I never hope for war, Major. But if it comes, I'd rather see the Dominion on the losing side. However, we have to plan for the worst. Ben, I want you to evacuate DS Nine of all non-essential personnel and put the Defiant on standby alert. Even if Tain succeeds, the Jem'Hadar are going to come screaming out of the wormhole looking for revenge and they may not be too particular who their targets are. 
SISKO: Admiral, we believe Security Chief Odo is aboard one of the Romulan ships. 
EDDINGTON: Odo's message said the runabout had been caught in a tractor beam. That suggests he was captured and taken aboard one of their ships. 
SISKO: I'd like permission to take the Defiant into the Gamma Quadrant and try to determine if he's still alive. 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: I'm sorry about your officer, but there's nothing we can do. I want the Defiant guarding Bajor. That's your top priority. Toddman out. 
(transmission ends) 
SISKO: Commander Eddington, am I correct in assuming that Starfleet is planning to send substantial reinforcements to this sector? 
EDDINGTON: Yes, sir. A task force of nine starships is due to arrive tomorrow. 
SISKO: Nine starships. I want the Defiant prepared to leave for the Gamma Quadrant in two hours. 
EDDINGTON: Sir, Admiral Toddman's orders were quite clear and 
SISKO: I am not going to just abandon one of my officers. Toddman's concerned about the defence of Bajor, and so am I. If we detect a Jem'Hadar strike force heading for the Alpha Quadrant, we'll use the communications relay to warn DS Nine, and we'll do everything we can to stop them before they reach the wormhole. I consider this a volunteer mission, but don't volunteer yet. There's a good chance you won't be coming back from this mission. And even if you do, you'll probably be facing a general court martial. If you do decide to go, be aboard the Defiant at fifteen thirty hours. Dismissed. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: All stations report. 
KIRA: Tactical ready. 
O'BRIEN: Warp and impulse engines online, cloaking device standing by. 
DAX: Helm ready. 
EDDINGTON: The Security detachment is aboard and phaser rifles have been issued to every fire team. 
SISKO: Release docking clamps. 
KIRA: Commander, there's an incoming priority message from Starfleet Command. It's Admiral Toddman. He's repeating his order not to enter the Gamma Quadrant. 
SISKO: That's what you think it says. How can you be sure when a transmission is as badly garbled as that one? 
KIRA: You're right. There's an awful lot of subspace interference on this channel. Must be an ion storm or something. 
SISKO: Must be. 
(Eddington looks worried) 
SISKO: Aft thrusters back one quarter, port and starboard at station keeping. 
(WHOOSH. Into the Gamma Quadrant and under cloak) 
DAX: The cloaking device is operating within normal parameters. 
SISKO: Set course for the Founders' homeworld, warp eight. 
[Warbird Bridge]
LOVOK: We know that the Founders' planet lies at approximately these coordinates within the Omarion nebula. As you can see, there are no Jem'Hadar bases nearby. This means that even if the Founders did send out a distress call, it would take at least seven hours for any help to arrive. 
TAIN: Our plan is to wait until we've entered orbit of the Founders' planet, then decloak and begin massive bombardment. 
LOVOK: Computer analysis indicates that the planet's crust will be destroyed within one hour, and the mantle within five. 
GARAK: That should more than take care of the Founders. 
TAIN: Yes, it should. Unless they have some planetary defences we don't know about. There is one person here who might answer that question. Mister Odo. 
GARAK: Anything he knows about the Founders and their planet was undoubtedly included in his report to Starfleet. The constable is remarkably thorough in these matters. 
TAIN: There was a time when you were eager to begin an interrogation, Elim. In fact, I remember having to restrain your enthusiasm on several occasions. 
GARAK: Then you should also remember the pride I took in my work. I don't think that interrogating someone who can alter their form at will is likely to provide either amusement or information. 
TAIN: I wouldn't worry about Mister Odo's shape-shifting if I were you. The Obsidian Order has developed a device which should prove quite effective in neutralising him. 
LOVOK: I was not informed about this device. 
TAIN: It's only a prototype. We've never had a chance to test it, until now. Perhaps the Tal Shiar should take over the interrogation of the changeling. 
GARAK: No. 
TAIN: It's all right, Garak. It's my fault. I should've known you'd develop feelings for these people you've been living with for the past few years. But I just never expected that you would become friends with someone who worked for the Bajorans. 
GARAK: This has nothing to do with my friends or my feelings. I simply don't believe he has the information you want. 
TAIN: Possibly. Colonel Lovok will find out. 
GARAK: No. I brought Odo here. He's my prisoner and my responsibility. 
TAIN: You don't have to do this. 
GARAK: Yes, I do. And I think we both know that you won't trust me until I do. 
TAIN: All right. I look forward to hearing your results. 
[Bridge]
DAX: Commander, I'm reading some kind of power fluctuation in the cloaking device. 
SISKO: What kind of fluctuation? 
DAX: I don't know. I can't locate the source of the problem but it is getting worse. 
(Lights up) 
KIRA: We're decloaking! 
SISKO: All stop. Full scan, Lieutenant. Are there any other ships in the area? 
DAX: No, nothing in sensor range. 
KIRA: Commander, if the Jem'Hadar show up while we're decloaked 
SISKO: We'll have to fight our way out of here. 
(After the break.) 
O'BRIEN: Everything looks fine. The power converters are online. The projection matrix looks normal. The cloaking device should be working. 
KIRA: Maybe there's some kind of spatial anomaly nearby that's interfering with the cloak's power systems. 
EDDINGTON: This isn't the result of a spatial anomaly, Major. The tetryon compositor on the cloaking device has been sabotaged. 
KIRA: How do you know that? 
EDDINGTON: Because I sabotaged it. 
SISKO: Why? 
EDDINGTON: I was under orders from Admiral Toddman to stop you from pursuing the Romulan-Cardassian fleet. 
O'BRIEN: You've turned us into sitting ducks for the Jem'Hadar! 
EDDINGTON: We can still defend ourselves. I didn't damage any of the ship's weapon systems or the engines. But without the cloak, we'll have to return to DS Nine. I'm sorry Commander, I didn't want to do this. Odo's my friend too but I report directly to Admiral Toddman and he gave me an explicit order. I couldn't disobey it. 
SISKO: I don't suppose you could. Chief, now that we know the problem is in the tetryon compositor, how long until you can fix it? 
O'BRIEN: About ten hours. 
SISKO: You've got two. On your way. 
(O'Brien leaves.) 
SISKO: I'm afraid I'm going to have to confine you to quarters, Mister Eddington. 
EDDINGTON: Sir, if we run into the Jem'Hadar, you're still going to need a chief security officer. 
KIRA: What makes you think we'll trust you again? 
EDDINGTON: Because I give you my word. 
SISKO: I make it a policy to never question the word of anyone who wears that uniform. Don't make me change that policy. Man your station, Commander. But I'd stay out of the Chief's way if I were you. 
[Warbird - Odo's quarters]
(Garak enters with a bucket and two Romulans carrying pieces of a Contraption.) 
GARAK: I realise it must be nearly time for you to return to your liquid state, so I thought I'd bring you something to relax in. 
ODO: How kind. 
GARAK: But before you go for a swim, I have a few questions I'd like to ask you. 
ODO: I have nothing to say. 
(The Romulans assemble the Contraption on a table.) 
GARAK: Well I had hoped a few hours alone might jog your memory but I can see I'm going to have to take some steps I'd hoped to avoid. 
ODO: Oh, no. You're going to torture me, aren't you? How I've been dreading this. Please have mercy, Garak. 
GARAK: You do have a certain flair for sarcasm. It's one of the things I like about you. 
(Garak switches the Contraption on.) 
GARAK: You can go now. 
(The Romulans leave.) 
ODO: I'd bring those guards back if I were you. I'm not in a very good mood. 
GARAK: Yes, under normal circumstances, you would pose quite a threat to me. You could turn yourself into a Vicarian razorback or stretch out your arms and strangle me from across the room. But not this time. 
ODO: Oh? And why is that? 
GARAK: Because that device is emitting a quantum stasis field designed to prevent any changeling from altering his biomolecular structure. 
(Odo checks this statement by flexing his hands and flinging them as if they should stretch.) 
GARAK: Yes, it must be very disconcerting for you to be locked into a humanoid form. Especially now. I'm sure you were looking forward to returning to your liquid state. Tell me, what will happen if you can't revert to a liquid? 
ODO: I don't know. 
GARAK: An honest answer. But it's probably safe to say that it won't be pleasant. 
ODO: Garak, this is pointless. There's nothing I can tell you about the Founders that you don't already know. 
GARAK: I wish I could believe that. 
ODO: Then why don't you? 
GARAK: Because you and I are so alike. We both value our privacy, our secrets. That's why I know there's something about the Founders you haven't told anyone. Something you didn't even share with Starfleet and Commander Sisko, hmm? But you are going to tell me, Odo. 
ODO: There's nothing to tell. 
GARAK: Well, perhaps something will come to you. I can wait. The question is, can you? 
[Bridge]
(Kira gets up and starts to head for the door.) 
SISKO: Major, leave the chief alone. 
KIRA: What makes you think I'm going to see O'Brien? 
(Sisko Looks at her.) 
KIRA: It's been three hours. I just wanted to see if he needed some help. 
SISKO: If he needed help he would ask for it. For now, the best thing we can do is to stay out of his way. 
[Warbird - Odo's quarters]
(Odo is shaking, cracking and flaking badly.) 
ODO: What's the matter, Garak? You don't look very happy. Aren't you enjoying yourself? 
GARAK: There's no pleasure in this for me, Constable, I assure you. I am simply doing my job. 
ODO: Your job. Yes, this is the job you've been waiting for. All these years of exile and here you are interrogating a prisoner again. It must fill you with pride. 
GARAK: Odo, just tell me what I need to know and this will end. 
ODO: But you don't want it to end, do you, Garak? Isn't this what you've been dreaming of? Back at work serving Cardassia. 
GARAK: That's right. And you have information that I need. Information that it's my duty to extract from you. It's not personal. Odo, talk to me. Tell me something. Anything! Lie if you have to, but say it now. Please. 
ODO: Home. I want to go home. 
GARAK: And you will, I promise. As soon as this is all over, I promise I'll take you back to Deep Space Nine. 
ODO: No, not the station. Home with my people. 
GARAK: The Founders? You want to return to the Founders? I thought you turned your back on them. 
ODO: I did, but they're still my people. I tried to deny it, I tried to forget, but I can't. They're my people and I want to be with them in the Great Link. 
GARAK: I knew there was something, a secret you were holding back. 
ODO: And now you've found it. I hope it's useful. 
(Garak turns off the Contraption and Odo swooshes into the bucket, with all his little flakes joining him. Garak puts his head in his hands.) 
[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Repairs are complete, sir. The cloaking device is online. A souvenir of your handiwork. 
(O'Brien throws a circuit board at Eddington.) 
SISKO: Engage cloak. 
DAX: The cloak is operating normally. 
SISKO: Resume course to the Founders' planet, maximum warp. 
[Warbird - Ready room]
TAIN: Did you get anything out of him at all? 
GARAK: Nothing. He never broke. 
TAIN: Well, that's unfortunate. I see no further use for Mister Odo. Terminate him. 
GARAK: On the other hand, he is a member of the Bajoran militia and an officer on Deep Space Nine. We may not wish to provoke the Federation by killing him. 
LOVOK: I agree with Garak. 
TAIN: Do you? 
LOVOK: Yes. There is no way to be certain that all of the Founders will be on the planet when we attack. We should be prepared to encounter other changelings in the future and we could use more information on their capabilities. I want to take Odo back to Romulus for further study. 
TAIN: All right, in the interest of cooperation. 
ROMULAN [OC]: Bridge to Colonel Lovok. 
LOVOK: This is Lovok. 
ROMULAN [OC]: We've entered the Omarion Nebula and dropped out of warp. We should be in orbit of the planet in fifteen minutes. 
LOVOK: Acknowledged. 
TAIN: Well, seems the moment is nearly at hand. Gentleman. 
[Warbird corridor]
(Tain walks on ahead as Lovok stops Garak in the doorway.) 
GARAK: Can I do something for you, Colonel? 
LOVOK: Why were you trying to protect the changeling? 
GARAK: I wasn't trying to protect him. And as I recall, you thought it was a good idea to keep him alive as well. 
LOVOK: My interest in the changeling is based on what I believe to be the strategic interests of the Romulan Empire. But you, you seem to have a personal interest in him. 
GARAK: Tell me, what else am I feeling? I've never been psychoanalysed by a Romulan before. This is a fascinating experience. 
LOVOK: You are a practiced liar, Mister Garak, but I am a practiced observer. And I can assure you, I am going to be observing you very closely. 
[Warbird Bridge]
PILOT: We are within disruptor range. 
LOVOK: Scan the planet for life-signs. 
PILOT: Sensors show multiple lifeforms on the surface. They appear to be in a liquid state. 
GARAK: The Founders. 
TAIN: Signal the fleet to charge weapons and lock onto their targets. We will open fire the moment we drop our cloaks. 
PILOT: All ships report ready. All weapons charged. 
TAIN: So much for the Dominion. Open fire. 
PILOT: The first barrage is complete. 
TAIN: Effect? 
PILOT: Thirty percent of the planetary crust destroyed on opening volley. No change in lifeform readings. 
TAIN: What? That's impossible. Some of them had to be killed. 
PILOT: Our sensor readings have been confirmed by three other warbirds. There has been no change in the number of life-signs on the surface. 
GARAK: They're using an automated transponder to send back false sensor readings. The planet's deserted. 
TAIN: Colonel, signal the fleet to 
PILOT: Colonel, there are ships coming out of the nebula. 
LOVOK: What type of ships? 
PILOT: Jem'Hadar fighters. 
TAIN: How many? I asked you a question. 
PILOT: One hundred fifty. 
TAIN: Tactical display on screen. 
GARAK: It's a trap. They've been waiting for us all along. 
(Battle is joined. A Cardassian ship goes KaBOOM!) 
PILOT: Cardassian cruiser Koranak has been destroyed. Romulan warbirds Makar and Belak have lost main power. 
LOVOK: Bring us about to three one eight mark two one five. Concentrate fire on ships attacking on the port quarter. 
GARAK: The Jem'Hadar will destroy every ship if we stay. Our only hope is to return to the Alpha Quadrant. 
LOVOK: There's no way out of here, Garak. The Jem'Hadar have cut us off. We need to consolidate the fleet and make our stand here. 
TAIN: How could this be? What have happened? 
GARAK: I'm afraid 
the fault, dear Tain, is not in our stars but in ourselves
. 
TAIN: What? 
GARAK: Just something I learned from Doctor Bashir. 
PILOT: Main power's out. Switching to emergency backups. 
LOVOK: Bridge to Engineering. We need power to the weapons. Bridge to Engineering, respond. I'll be in Engineering. Tain, take command of the Bridge. 
PILOT: Four more Jem'Hadar vessels are closing on our position. 
(BOOM and fire breaks out. Garak leaves.) 
[Warbird Odo's quarters]
(Garak knocks out the guard, takes his weapon and enters.) 
ODO: I take it that the attack on the Founders is not proceeding according to plan. 
GARAK: No, it's not, but I suggest we make our way to the runabout. 
ODO: For once, Garak, I agree with you. 
LOVOK: You will need this in order to gain access to your runabout. 
ODO: Why are you doing this? 
LOVOK: Because no changeling has ever harmed another. 
GARAK: You are one of the Founders? 
ODO: Of course. This whole plan was the Founders' idea in the first place. You wanted the Tal Shiar and the Obsidian Order to combine forces and come into the Gamma Quadrant so you could wipe them out. 
LOVOK: Not exactly. Tain originated the plan, and when we learned of it we did everything we could to carry it forward. The Tal Shiar and the Obsidian Order are both ruthless, efficient organisations. A definite threat to us. 
ODO: But not after today. 
LOVOK: After today the only real threat to us from the Alpha Quadrant are the Klingons and the Federation. And I doubt that either of them will be a threat for much longer. It is not too late for you, Odo. Come with me. You can still become one with the Great Link if you wish. 
ODO: Thank you. But my answer is still no. 
(Lovok beams out) 
ODO: Come on. I don't think we have much time. 
[Warbird corridor]
GARAK: The runabout is that way. Two decks down. Section twenty five. Wait for me there. 
ODO: Where are you going? 
GARAK: To the Bridge, to get Tain. 
ODO: What? 
GARAK: I know it's difficult for you to understand, Constable, but I still owe him a personal debt and I have to try to repay it. Wait for us as long as you can. 
[Warbird Bridge]
(It's a total wreck.) 
GARAK: Tain, we have to go! 
TAIN: There must have been an informant. That's the only explanation. 
GARAK: Yes, there was an informant. You're right. Colonel Lovok is a changeling. 
TAIN: Lovok. 
GARAK: Yes, but that's something we can discuss it at another time. Right now we have to 
TAIN: It appears I have underestimated the Founders. I should have seen it coming. There was a time when nothing got past me. You remember, don't you, Elim? 
(BOOM) 
GARAK: Yes, I do. But now we have to go! 
TAIN: Go where? Back to Mila and my quiet retirement? I don't think so. I must be getting old. I let my pride override my instinct. Wouldn't have played it that way in the old days. In the old days I would've kept Lovok at arms length. He was too cagey, too smart. 
GARAK: I can't just leave you here. 
TAIN: I always did have a soft spot for you, Garak. Another of my flaws. 
GARAK: Enabran! 
(Odo knocks Garak out) 
TAIN: These Founders, Elim. They're very good. Next time we should be more careful. 
[Runabout]
GARAK: You can be very persuasive on occasion, Constable. But in the future I hope you'll consider using gentler language. 
ODO: I'll keep that in mind. A Jem'Hadar ship is following us. Raise shields and charge the weapons. 
(Boom.) 
GARAK: Aft shields down to fifty percent. More speed would be advisable. 
ODO: The warp drive is offline. 
(Boom, bang.) 
GARAK: Shields down to thirty percent. 
ODO: Another Jem'Hadar ship is approaching to starboard. Hang on! 
GARAK: Shields down to fifteen percent. 
ODO: Main power's failing. We're losing speed. 
GARAK: The shields are gone. Odo, I hope that you will accept my sincere apologies for all this. 
ODO: A little late, isn't it? 
GARAK: Nevertheless. 
ODO: I may not agree with what you did, but I can certainly understand your desire to return home. 
GARAK: Thank you. 
ODO: What? 
(The Defiant decloaks and blows the Jem'Hadar to atoms.) 
[Bridge]
KIRA: Three more coming in off the port bow. 
SISKO: Fire on the lead ship, then bring us back to the runabout. 
DAX: Two life-signs on the runabout, Commander. 
SISKO: Drop shields. Bridge to Transporter room. Beam them aboard, Chief. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Aye, sir. 
EDDINGTON: Four more Jem'Hadar ships closing to starboard. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien to Bridge. I've got them. 
SISKO: Raise shields. 
[Transporter room]
O'BRIEN: Welcome back. 
ODO: Thank you. 
BASHIR: Oh, that looks painful. 
GARAK: It is. But it did save my life. 
[Bridge]
(Consoles exploding.) 
EDDINGTON: Shields at eighty percent. 
SISKO: Attack pattern omega four. Full impulse power. Hold your fire until we're within five hundred metres. 
KIRA: We might get pretty singed at that range. 
SISKO: Not as singed as they're going to get. Engage. 
DAX: Fifty thousand metres and closing. Two thousand metres. Five hundred! 
SISKO: Fire! 
(KaBOOM, KaBOOM. O'Brien enters with Garak and Odo.) 
KIRA: The third Jem'Hadar fighter is still pursuing. 
SISKO: Aft torpedoes fire. 
KIRA: Direct hit on their port nacelle. They're losing speed. We're out of their weapons' range. 
SISKO: Any other signs of pursuit? 
DAX: Negative. The other fighters are still concentrating on the remaining Romulan and Cardassian ships. 
SISKO: Let's not wait around for them to change their minds. Set course for the wormhole, Lieutenant. Warp eight. 
KIRA: It's good to see you again, Constable. 
ODO: Likewise, Major. 
DAX: Course laid in. 
SISKO: Engage. 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: There is still no indication that any Romulan or Cardassian vessels survived the attack. 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: Sounds like Wolf three five nine all over again. 
SISKO: I had the same thought. 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: You may be interested to know I've decided not to file charges against anyone aboard the Defiant. 
SISKO: Thank you, sir. 
TODDMAN [on monitor]: But if you pull a stunt like that again I'll court martial you or I'll promote you. Either way you'll be in a lot of trouble. 
SISKO: I'll keep that in mind, sir. 
[Garak's shop]
(Still a big mess. Garak cleans the remains of a mirror and sees Odo standing in the doorway.) 
ODO: I just read the report that you wrote and I wanted to thank you. 
GARAK: Me? For what? 
ODO: For not mentioning my desire to return to my people. 
GARAK: I consider the entire conversation as something best forgotten. 
ODO: As do I. Quark has expressed an interest in renting this space if you're not going to be using it. 
GARAK: Oh? 
ODO: He mentioned something about an 
Argelian
massage facility. 
GARAK: Unfortunately I don't think Commander Sisko will approve of such an interesting facility on the Promenade. 
ODO: I tend to agree. But do I think he would approve of a tailor's shop. 
GARAK: Do you know what the sad part is, Odo? I'm a very good tailor. 
ODO: Garak, I was thinking that you and I should have breakfast together sometime. 
GARAK: Why, Constable, I thought you didn't eat. 
ODO: I don't. 

