Episode Number: 550
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Tears Of The Prophets
Tears Of The Prophets
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 15 Jun, 1998
[Shrine]
SAHGI: (little girl) Peldor joi, Emissary. 
SISKO: Peldor joi to you, too. Well, it looks like the festival was a big success. 
KIRA: Oh, everyone seemed to enjoy it. Thank you, Captain. 
SISKO: For what? 
KIRA: For insisting that the festival take place in spite of the fact that we're in the middle of a war. 
SISKO: War or no war, we have a lot to be grateful for, and we must remember that. 
KIRA: Yes, we must. Shouldn't you be heading over to the wardroom for the ceremony? 
SISKO: On my way. (to children) Let's go. 
SAHGI: Come on, you guys. Mommy, look. Isn't it pretty? 
(Odo enters) 
ODO: Captain. Nerys, I've been looking for you. 
KIRA: Yeah, well I don't really feel like talking to you right now. 
ODO: Don't you want to hear my side of the story? 
KIRA: No. 
ODO: Somebody has to maintain order on the Promenade. 
KIRA: You arrested a Vedek. 
ODO: I'd hardly call it an arrest. He wasn't in the holding cell for more than an hour. Besides, he broke the law. Fundraising on the Promenade without a licence is strictly forbidden. Station regulation fifteen twenty six, paragraph seven. 
KIRA: Vedek Solis was raising funds for Bajoran flood victims. 
ODO: A very worthy cause. Nevertheless, station regulations are quite clear. 
KIRA: I don't care about station regulations. 
ODO: Is that the Orb of Contemplation? 
KIRA: Goodbye, Odo. 
[Wardroom]
ROSS: To Captain Benjamin Lafayette Sisko, in recognition of your remarkable leadership and meritorious conduct against the enemy, and in particular for personal acts of bravery displayed during the battle to retake Deep Space Nine, Starfleet Command is proud to present you the Christopher Pike Medal of Valour. Congratulations, Ben. 
SISKO: Thank you, Admiral. 
DAX: To think I knew him when he was just a callow youth. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, I bet even then he showed signs of greatness. 
JAKE: I'm proud of you, Dad. 
ROSS: Now if you would all excuse us, I'd like a word with the Captain. 
(Everyone else leaves.) 
ROSS: Good news, Ben. Starfleet Command has decided we've been waging a defensive war long enough. They figure we're never going to win this thing unless we take the fight into Dominion territory. Now, I know. I know you've been saying that since the Romulans opened a second front with the Dominion. It took a while, but your message finally got through. 
SISKO: When do we go? 
ROSS: That all depends on you. 
SISKO: Me? 
ROSS: That's right, Ben. Starfleet has chosen you to plan the invasion of Cardassia. 
[Quark's]
(Worf and Dax come down from the holosuites carrying bat'leths.) 
BASHIR: Oh, finally. I've been waiting twenty minutes for you two to get out of that holosuite. 
DAX: I'm sorry, Julian. We lost track of time. 
BASHIR: Doing what? You were supposed to be up there exercising. I don't see any sweat. Where are all the bruises, the broken bones, the blood? 
WORF: We were talking. 
QUARK: For an hour and forty five minutes? 
WORF: It is a private matter. 
DAX: We're thinking about having a baby. 
WORF: It was a private matter. 
KIRA [OC]: Kira to Worf. Report to Ops immediately. 
WORF: Acknowledged. 
(Worf leaves.) 
DAX: Well you two are awfully quiet. 
BASHIR: Look, I don't want to dampen your spirits, Jadzia, but I told you before you were married that from a medical point of view it wouldn't be easy for a Trill and a Klingon to have a child. 
QUARK: And I'm worried the kid'll end up looking like his father. 
DAX: Well I hope she does. 
(Dax leaves.) 
BASHIR: A baby? 
QUARK: It's bad enough she married that Klingon psychopath. 
BASHIR: A baby. Do you have any idea what that means? 
QUARK: That their marriage is going to last a lot longer than we thought. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Five squadrons of Jem'Hadar attack ships. At the moment, that's the entire Dominion fleet protecting the Chin'toka system. 
MARTOK: Only five squadrons. It appears you've found the weak spot we've been looking for. 
SISKO: Now all we have to do is to convince the Romulans to join us. 
MARTOK: That will not be an easy task. They're an arrogant and untrustworthy people. 
ROSS: Without their help, we have little chance of success. 
MARTOK: We will succeed! Mark my words. By this time next year, the three of us will drink bloodwine in the halls of Cardassia's Central Command. 
[Dominion briefing room]
(Meanwhile, on Cardassia.) 
DAMAR: You're worrying about nothing. 
WEYOUN: Am I? It's a mistake to underestimate our enemy, Damar. You're spreading our forces too thinly. 
DAMAR: Until we find a way to bring reinforcements from the Gamma Quadrant, we have to make due with what we have. Besides, we needed new ships on the Romulan front, so I sent them. 
WEYOUN: And in doing so, you left the Chin'toka system vulnerable. 
DAMAR: Not as vulnerable as you think. We don't need starships to protect Chin'toka. Not anymore. These are our new unmanned orbital weapon platforms. Their hulls are protected by regenerative forcefields and their arsenals consist of a thousand plasma torpedoes. 
WEYOUN: I like them. 
DAMAR: I thought you would. I've already ordered their deployment. 
(An aide enters.) 
GLINN: Legate Damar, excuse the interruption but we have a problem. 
DAMAR: What kind of a problem? 
DUKAT: Me. Well, isn't anyone going to welcome me home? 
WEYOUN: Heroes get welcomed home, Dukat, not failures. Or have you forgotten that under your leadership the Dominion nearly lost this war? 
DUKAT: As I recall, Weyoun, you were standing right by my side agreeing with every decision I made. 
DAMAR: If you're here because of what happened to your daughter. 
DUKAT: Damar, you disappoint me. I would have thought you, of all people, would be glad to see your old mentor. I don't hold you responsible for Ziyal's death. You may have fired the phaser, but it was Benjamin Sisko who forced your hand. And that's why I'm here. The time has come for me to take my revenge against the good captain. 
WEYOUN: We're in the middle of a life and death struggle for control of the entire Alpha Quadrant, and all you care about is quenching your petty thirst for revenge. You haven't changed a bit, have you? 
DUKAT: On the contrary, I'm a new man. I no longer have a need for conquest or power. I'm far beyond all that. I exist in a state of complete clarity. A clarity I intend to share with the universe. 
WEYOUN: You're right, Dukat, you have changed. You've gone from being a self important egotist to a self deluded madman. I hardly call that an improvement. I don't have time for this. Remove him. 
DAMAR: Wait. Why did you come? 
DUKAT: Isn't that obvious? To give you what you desire above all else. The Alpha Quadrant. All I need is a certain Bajoran artefact. One of the many the Cardassians appropriated during the occupation. 
WEYOUN: And how is this artefact going to help us? 
DUKAT: Let's just say it will make it possible for Dominion reinforcements to come through that wormhole and destroy Captain Sisko and the Federation once and for all. 
[Wardroom]
(As green meanies keep cloaking and uncloaking around the station.) 
LETANT: (Romulan) Really, Captain, I see no reason why I should sit here and allow this Klingon jackal to call me a coward. 
MARTOK: Apparently, this jackal has more courage than the entire Romulan Senate. 
LETANT: You see my point? 
WORF: General, you must try to remain calm. 
MARTOK: This is not the time for calm. It's time to strike the enemy and strike them hard. 
SISKO: We found their weak point. Now we need to exploit it. 
MARTOK: But this p'tagh would rather sit home and count his dead. 
LETANT: If we invade Cardassia now, all we'll do is count our dead. 
SISKO: Gentlemen, please. We're allies, remember that. 
MARTOK: What good is an ally who'll stab you in the back? 
LETANT: (to aide) Notice the primitive rage in his eye, the uncontrolled brutality. Klingons can be quite entertaining, can't they? Every Romulan zoo should have a pair. 
SISKO: Sit down, General! Save your anger for the Dominion. Senator, you've studied our invasion plans. 
LETANT: Yes, I have. And I continue to find them premature. Let the Dominion continue to send its fleets against us and we will annihilate them one by one. 
ROSS: And they'll continue to rebuild their ships and send more. 
WORF: The Dominion breed Jem'Hadar faster than we can destroy them. 
SISKO: The only way to achieve a lasting victory is to demolish their shipyards, their weapon plants, to force them to retreat deeper and deeper into their own territory until our ships can surround their headquarters on Cardassia Prime and they will have no choice but to surrender. I know it won't be easy. I know that we will pay a heavy price for every system we take from them. But in the end, that's the only way to drive the Dominion out of the Alpha Quadrant, and that is a goal we all share. Klingons, humans and Romulans. 
[Las Vegas lounge]
(Back to the 1960's where Vic Fontaine is singing 'Here's to the Losers.' Despondent Quark and Bashir are at a table.) 
BASHIR: That was great, Vic. 
VIC: It's not one of the most requested songs in my repertoire, but I'm glad you liked it. So, why the long face, pallie? 
BASHIR: It's a long story, friend. 
VIC: This wouldn't be about Dax's baby, would it? 
QUARK: What is he, a telepath? 
VIC: No, I'm a hologram. 
BASHIR: Yeah, a very smart one. 
VIC: It's simple. You take one beautiful, happily married filly, add the possibility of her giving birth to a foal, and what's that leave you? A couple of lovesick stallions that never got out of the starting gate. 
QUARK: You have any idea what he's talking about? 
VIC: Hey, I've got news for you guys. It's time to move onto greener pastures. 
BASHIR: It's tough to lose a woman like Dax. 
VIC: I hate to break it to you, pallie, but you lost her a long time ago. You both did. But lucky for you, space is big. There are a lot of other nice girls out there, with or without spots. Capisce? 
QUARK: That's it? That's supposed to cheer us up? 
VIC: The truth shall set you free. 
QUARK: You feel any better? 
BASHIR: A little. How about you? 
QUARK: I guess. 
VIC: Good, because you were starting to depress the band. 
BASHIR: Well, thanks, Vic. We appreciate the advice. 
QUARK: I like this place. I may drop by more often. 
VIC: Anytime, pallie, anytime. 
(Quark and Bashir leave.) 
VIC: Nice guys, but absolutely clueless. 
[Sisko's quarters]
(Home-cooked dinner time.) 
JAKE: So, when do we leave? 
SISKO: We? 
JAKE: I'm a journalist, Dad. Remember? 
SISKO: That may be true, but you're not going, Jake. 
JAKE: But, Dad, we're talking about the invasion of Cardassia. A savage thrust into the very heart of the Dominion. That's not how I would write it. 
SISKO: That's a relief. But you're still not going, son. 
JAKE: I have to go. It's my job. Now if you don't want me on the Defiant, fine. I'll go with General Martok. Get the story from a Klingon perspective. 
SISKO: All right, Jake, the Defiant it is. 
JAKE: So when do we leave? 
SISKO: Just keep your bags packed. 
JAKE: Yes, sir. 
(Jake gets up from the table. Sisko takes hold of his arm then gets up to hug his son.) 
JAKE: Don't worry, Dad. We'll watch out for each other. 
(Jake leaves and Sisko goes into a Vision.) 
[Ops]
WORF: The Sisko is of Bajor. 
[Wardroom]
MARTOK: It is where he belongs. 
[Captain's office]
ROSS: It is where he is meant to be. 
SISKO: Are you telling me not to go to Cardassia? 
[Ops]
ROSS: The Sisko is of Bajor. 
MARTOK: It is dangerous to walk a different path. 
SISKO: Dangerous? In what way? 
ROSS: The Sisko must not leave the chosen path. 
WORF: The Sisko is of Bajor. 
LETANT: It is where he belongs. 
SISKO: Why is it dangerous to leave? And how will it affect Bajor? You have to tell me. 
(But that's where the Vision ends.) 
[Wardroom]
ROSS: The Cardassians call them orbital weapon platforms. Intelligence reports indicate the Dominion has placed hundreds of them throughout the Chin'toka system. 
SISKO: Are they operational? 
ROSS: No, not yet. 
MARTOK: How much time do we have before they are? 
ROSS: Two, maybe three days. 
LETANT: So, it would appear that your weak spot is about to become much stronger. 
MARTOK: Leave it to a Romulan to run at the first sign of trouble. 
LETANT: And leave it to a Klingon to leap to the wrong conclusion. The Romulan Empire has agreed to join the invasion of Cardassia and we live up to our agreements. The only question is, can the invasion be launched before the defensive grid is activated? 
MARTOK: We'll have to leave first thing in the morning. 
ROSS: Then it's settled. Good luck, gentlemen. Good luck to us all. 
LETANT: Romulans don't believe in luck. 
MARTOK: All the better. It leaves more for the rest of us. 
(Martok and Letant leave.) 
ROSS: You've been quiet, Ben. Those weapon platforms have you worried? 
SISKO: It's not about that, sir. It's about the Prophets, the wormhole aliens. They spoke to me last night. 
ROSS: I hope they gave the mission their blessing. 
SISKO: They told me not to go to Cardassia. That I should stay here. 
ROSS: Did they give you a reason? 
SISKO: Nothing concrete. Just that it's too dangerous. 
ROSS: In what way? Dangerous to you, to the mission, to Bajor? 
SISKO: I'm not sure. 
ROSS: What is it you're telling me, Ben? You want permission to stay behind? 
SISKO: It's not about what I want. It's about what the Prophets want. 
ROSS: That's not a good enough answer, not from a Starfleet captain. 
SISKO: The Prophets don't see me as a Starfleet captain. They see me as their Emissary. 
ROSS: That's the problem, isn't it? For the past six years you've tried to be both, and up to now I've been patient. I've indulged you, I've gone out on a limb for you many times, but this is it. You've got to make a decision. You are either the Emissary or a Starfleet captain. You can't be both. 
SISKO: I'll be on the Defiant bridge at oh five hundred. 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: A combined fleet at Deep Space Nine? 
WEYOUN: Composed of Federation, Klingon and Romulan ships. 
DAMAR: You think they'll head for the Chin'toka system? 
WEYOUN: I would. 
DAMAR: Well then, we have nothing to worry about. The weapon platforms will be operational in time to greet them. 
WEYOUN: That's a very comforting thought, if it's accurate. 
DAMAR: I'll make sure that it is. 
(Dukat enters with his Jem'Hadar escort, carrying a box.) 
DUKAT: Gentlemen. I hope I'm not interrupting. 
WEYOUN: What is it now, Dukat? 
DUKAT: I've found it. Behold, the key to victory. 
(He holds up the box.) 
DUKAT: Oh, I see you remain sceptical. Well, you won't be for long. Over the past few months, I've immersed myself in the study of the Bajoran Ancient Texts. 
(Dukat takes candles from his knapsack during his speech and lights them.) 
DUKAT: And I've come to realize that the wormhole is much more than the gateway to the Gamma Quadrant. It's the Temple of the Prophets. It's from there that they smile benevolently down on Bajor. It's from there that they protect that world and its people. The sad truth is, we wasted our time fighting the Bajorans when we should've been fighting their gods. 
(Dukat takes a wooden figure from the box.) 
DAMAR: How do you fight a god? 
DUKAT: I'll show you. You see, we have an ally we never knew we had. You may want to step back. Dorrah tolka bretri pah'rahn, meedor. Dorrah tolka ullkess pah'rahn. 
(Dukat breaks the figure in two and red energy comes out of it. It goes into his body, throwing him backwards to the floor.) 
DAMAR: Dukat! 
(Dukat's eyes are red, and his voice is slightly echoing.) 
DUKAT: Your concern is touching, but unnecessary. 
[Security office]
KIRA: Busy? 
ODO: A little. 
KIRA: I'm leaving with the task force first thing in the morning. 
ODO: I heard. 
KIRA: And? 
ODO: And I'm sorry I arrested him. I was simply trying to do my duty, but I can see how it might have seemed excessive. 
KIRA: What are you talking about? 
ODO: Vedek Solis. That's why you're here, isn't it? 
KIRA: No, but now I know why you've been avoiding me for the past few days. 
ODO: I haven't been avoiding you. I've been helping you to avoid me. 
KIRA: Why would I want to do that? 
ODO: Because you don't want us to be together anymore? 
KIRA: Is that what you've been thinking? Odo, we had an argument. People have them all the time. Look at Dax and Worf. They love each other, but they fight all the time. 
ODO: Are you saying that you love me? 
KIRA: Don't change the subject. 
ODO: Which is? 
KIRA: I don't even know anymore. 
ODO: But you're no longer angry at me? 
KIRA: No. But you were wrong to arrest the Vedek. 
ODO: I see. 
KIRA: And I thought that we could spend my last night on the station together. 
ODO: That's a wonderful idea. 
KIRA: Then I will see you later. 
ODO: I look forward to that. 
KIRA: Good. 
ODO: You know, Nerys, observing humanoid relationships and being in one are very different things. 
KIRA: Like night and day. 
[Airlock]
O'BRIEN: If you ask me, it's an ungodly hour to go to war. You can quote me on that. 
JAKE: I will. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, Jadzia? Will you look in on Keiko and the kids while I'm gone? 
DAX: You can count on it. 
O'BRIEN: And try to keep Julian out of trouble. 
DAX: Now that's pushing. 
SISKO: It's your station, old man. 
DAX: I'll take good care of her. 
DAX: Give my best to the Jem'Hadar. Oh, I'll do that. I said a prayer at the shrine last night for the two of you. 
DAX: About having a baby? 
KIRA: The Prophets can be helpful in such matters. 
DAX: I hope they're listening. 
(Kira leaves.) 
DAX: Did you hear that? We have the Prophets on our side. 
WORF: According to Doctor Bashir, we need all the help we can get. 
DAX: Just remember, when you get back, we have a lot of work to do. 
WORF: I don't consider that work. 
DAX: I wish I was going with you. 
WORF: You are. In here. 
DAX: I love it when you get romantic. 
[Bridge]
NOG: Captain on the Bridge. 
SISKO: As you were. 
O'BRIEN: You got here early. 
GARAK: This is a momentous occasion. It's not every day I embark on a journey to liberate my homeworld. 
O'BRIEN: That's one way to put it. 
MARTOK [OC]: This is General Martok to all ships. Assume tactical formation. We are moving out. 
SISKO: Take us to Cardassia, Mister Nog. 
NOG: Aye, sir. 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: The enemy fleet is approaching the Chin'toka system. 
WEYOUN: What's the status of our weapon platforms? 
DAMAR: Still offline. 
WEYOUN: It pains me to say this, but you Cardassians are proving to be quite a disappointment. 
DAMAR: I'll remind you that you said that. 
[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Looks like we're in luck, Captain. The defensive grid's still offline. 
KIRA: Jem'Hadar fighters approaching, bearing zero five nine mark zero three one. 
NOG: They must know they don't stand a chance against a fleet this size. 
WORF: That will not matter to the Jem'Hadar. 
SISKO: Sit down, Jake. 
JAKE: All right. 
MARTOK [OC]: Martok to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
MARTOK [OC]: My attack wing is closest to those Jem'Hadar fighters. Preparing to engage. 
SISKO: Good luck, General. 
(The Jem'Hadar do kamikaze runs at the Klingons to destroy the ships.) 
NOG: I always thought the Jem'Hadar were crazy. 
GARAK: There's method to their madness. They're inflicting considerable damage on the Klingons. 
WORF: And buying time to get their weapon platforms operational. 
SISKO: Sisko to Martok. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: The Jem'Hadar have managed to cripple or destroy fifteen of my ships. 
SISKO: Do you need any assistance? 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: That won't be necessary. Commence firing on the weapon platforms. 
(Ka-BOOM go a few platforms, then as the fleet move into the system, the rest spring to life. They open their spider legs and start firing at our ships, cutting big holes in hulls.) 
[Dominion briefing room]
DAMAR: I believe you owe me an apology. 
WEYOUN: I believe you're right. 
DAMAR: Now, if Dukat can get our reinforcements through the wormhole 
WEYOUN: I'm not sure how much faith I have in this, what did he call it? 
DAMAR: A Pah wraith. 
WEYOUN: Pah wraiths and Prophets. All this talk of gods strikes me as nothing more than superstitious nonsense. 
DAMAR: You believe that the Founders are gods, don't you? 
WEYOUN: That's different. 
DAMAR: In what way? 
WEYOUN: The Founders are gods. 
[Bridge]
(More alliance ships are being crippled or destroyed.) 
WORF: We are unable to penetrate their forcefields. 
GARAK: Captain, I've just noticed something odd about those platforms. 
SISKO: Don't keep it to yourself, Mister Garak. 
GARAK: Not one of them seem to have a power generator on board. 
O'BRIEN: He's right. Each one seems to be getting its power from a central source. 
KIRA: We've got to find that source and destroy it. 
SISKO: Chief? 
O'BRIEN: I'm on it. 
[Promenade - upper level]
BASHIR: According to the DNA scans I did this morning, the ovarian resequencing enzymes I gave you appear to be working. 
DAX: You mean Worf and I can have a baby? 
BASHIR: It certainly looks that way. I must say, I didn't expect such positive results so early. It's quite amazing, actually. 
DAX: Oh, thank you, Julian. 
BASHIR: It's all part of being a doctor. 
DAX: Oh no, it's more than that. You're a good friend. You always have been. 
BASHIR: And I always will be. 
DAX: I'd better get back to work. But first I'm going to stop by the Bajoran shrine. 
BASHIR: What for? 
DAX: Kira said a prayer for me and Worf last night. She told the Prophets how much we wanted a baby. 
BASHIR: I'd say they'd been listening. That is, if you believe in Prophets. 
DAX: Oh, well I do today. 
[Shrine]
(Dax lights a couple of big candles then turns to the Orb box.) 
DAX: I'm not sure if I'm doing this correctly. I don't come here a lot. And to be perfectly honest, I feel more comfortable thinking of you as wormhole # aliens, but Kira believes you're much more than that. Maybe she's right, I don't know. But if you are Prophets, and you're listening, I just want to say 
(A wind blows through the shrine and puts out her candles. Dukat beams in.) 
DAX: Dukat. 
(Dax goes for her phaser but Dukat stretches out his arm and the red Pah Wraith energy lifts her off the floor. Then he lets her drop. She lies very still. Dukat goes through the protective forcefield and takes hold of the Orb box. He opens it and the Pah wraith energy rushes into it. The orb turns from gleaming crystal to dull black. He screams and drops to his knees, no longer possessed. Outside the wormhole opens then collapses in on itself.) 
[Bridge]
(Sisko staggers.) 
JAKE: Dad, what is it? 
KIRA: Captain? 
SISKO: I'm not sure. I think I felt the Prophets reaching out to me. Something's wrong. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, I found it. There's a subspace power generator on a small moon orbiting the far planet. It's transmitting energy to the weapon platforms. Captain? 
KIRA: Take us there, Mister Nog. 
NOG: Aye, sir. 
KIRA: Get him back to his quarters. Don't worry, Captain. We'll get the job done. 
[Shrine]
(Dukat checks on Dax.) 
DUKAT: I know this is small comfort, but I never intended you any harm. 
(Dukat beams out.) 
[Bridge]
(The carnage continues outside. The Defiant, a Klingon and another Federation ship are nearly through the defences.) 
NOG: Approaching the target. 
KIRA: On screen. 
WORF: Target locked. 
KIRA: Fire. 
WORF: We are unable to penetrate the moon's defensive grid. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, I have an idea. 
KIRA: Go ahead. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe we can't destroy that power generator, but I bet those weapon platforms could. 
KIRA: Why would they fire on their own power source? 
GARAK: We'd have to fool the platforms' targeting systems into thinking the generator's an enemy ship. 
O'BRIEN: We can use our deflector array to imprint a Federation warp signature on the generator's energy matrix. 
WORF: It is worth a try. 
KIRA: Evasive manoeuvres, Mister Nog. Pattern Theta. 
(The Klingon ship goes KaBOOM.) 
O'BRIEN: Induction stabilisers set. Booster modulators synchronised. Ready to activate deflector. 
KIRA: Do it. 
(Defiant swoops low over the moon. The platforms change target instantly and the moon goes KaBOOM! No more shots are fired.) 
NOG: Yes! We did it! 
(The remains of the fleet move through, taking revenge on platforms as they pass.);
MARTOK [OC]: Martok to the Defiant. 
KIRA: Go ahead, General. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: Well done, Major. We will begin transporting ground troops to both planets immediately. 
O'BRIEN: Major, we're receiving a priority one transmission from Deep Space Nine. It's from Julian. 
[Dominion briefing room]
WEYOUN: This is a disaster. Federation soldiers have landed on Cardassian soil and now you're telling me the wormhole is gone and with it any chance of getting reinforcements from the Gamma Quadrant. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: I'm well aware things didn't turn out quite the way I planned, but I assure you we still achieved a great victory. 
WEYOUN: Forgive me if I don't share your euphoria. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Well you should. The Bajoran people have been cut off from their gods, perhaps forever. 
DAMAR: How does that help us? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Because Sisko has been cut off from the Prophets as well. And without the Prophets, he's just another Starfleet captain. 
WEYOUN: And that's supposed to make me feel better? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Oh, believe me, it will. 
[Promenade]
(The Defiant has docked. Worf runs out of the airlock, followed by O'Brien and Sisko, then Kira.) 
CROWD: Emissary, Emissary. 
SAHGI: Emissary! My mother says all the Orbs are dark, that the Prophets have abandoned us. You have to find them, Emissary. You have to ask them to come back. 
SISKO: I will try. 
[Infirmary]
(Quark and Odo are pacing as Sisko, Kira and Jake enter. Bashir comes out of the surgery in scrubs, with a nurse.) 
BASHIR: I managed to save the Dax symbiont. We have to get it to Trill as soon as possible. There was nothing I could do for Jadzia. 
(Sisko goes into the surgery area, where Worf is with Dax.) 
DAX: I'm sorry. 
WORF: Save your strength. 
DAX: Our baby would have been so beautiful. 
(Worf does the death scream.) 
WORF: neH taH Kronos. Hegh bat'lhqu Hoch nej maH. neH taH Kronos. yay je bat'lh manob Hegh. 
[Cargo bay]
(Alone with the flag draped torpedo casing.) 
SISKO: The funeral service is due to begin in a few minutes, Jadzia but I need to talk to you one last time. When I first met you, you told me that my relationship with Jadzia Dax wouldn't be any different than the one I had with Curzon Dax. Things didn't work out that way. I had a hell of a lot of fun with both of you, but Curzon was my mentor. You, you were my friend and I am going to miss you. I should have listened to the Prophets and not gone to Cardassia. Then maybe you'd still be alive. Damn it! Why aren't you still here, Jadzia? I need you to help me sort things out. Something's happened to the Prophets, something that's made them turn their backs on Bajor and I'm responsible. And I don't know what to do about it, how to make it right again. I've failed as the Emissary, and for the first time in my life I've failed in my duty as a Starfleet officer. I need time to think, clear my head, but I can't do it here. Not on the station, not now. I need to get away and find a way to figure out how to make things right again. I have to make things right again, Jadzia. I have to. 
[Ops]
(Sisko comes out of his office carrying a bag.) 
SISKO: The station's all yours, Major. 
KIRA: She'll be here when you get back. 
BASHIR: This leave of absence you're taking, sir. How long do you think you'll be gone? 
SISKO: I don't know exactly. 
ODO: We'll be waiting. 
O'BRIEN: Good luck, sir. 
SISKO: Thanks, Chief. My thanks to all of you. Let's go home, Jake. (turbolift) Landing pad C. 
[Captain's office]
KIRA: I was afraid of that. He's not sure he's coming back. 
ODO: What makes you say that? 
KIRA: His baseball. He took it with him. 
[New Orleans alley]
(Sisko is scrubbing clams.) 
JAKE: Dad Grandpa's ready to close up the restaurant. He wants to know when you're coming in. 
SISKO: In a little while. 

