Episode Number: 473
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Way of the Warrior
The Way of the Warrior
Stardate: 49011.4
Original Airdate: 2 Oct, 1995
In memory of 
Gregg Duffy Long
Ronald W. Smith
[Corridor]
(Sisko and Kira are armed with phaser rifles. Sisko - who now has Avery's preferred look of shaven head and beard - does a silent countdown and they burst into) 
[Guest quarters]
(and fire the phasers, sweeping the entire room.) 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: We've swept all of level seventeen. No sign of the changeling. 
SISKO: Move down to eighteen. We'll meet you there after we finish checking the guest quarters. 
KIRA: Watch yourself, Chief. This changeling knows the station as well as we do. He could be anywhere or anything. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Aye, Major. 
[Guest bedroom]
(A chair cover morphs into a bird and flies off down the corridor.) 
SISKO: We've found him. He's headed to the Promenade. 
[Promenade]
(Security are running around in pairs. Bashir splits off from his companion.) 
BASHIR: Just there. All right, I want phaser sweeps of everything in the Promenade. He's here somewhere. Let's find him. On three. One, two 
(Odo stops being the multi-lingual shop directory and puts his hand on Bashir's shoulder) 
O'BRIEN: Bang. You're dead. 
ODO: And so is Doctor Bashir. 
(Sisko and Kira arrive on the turbolift.) 
KIRA: Computer, elapsed time? 
COMPUTER: Three hours, twenty-seven minutes. 
ODO: That's not good enough. If one of my people were loose on the station for that long, there's no telling how much damage they could do. 
SISKO: Schedule another surprise drill. If the Dominion tries to infiltrate the station, I want to be ready for them. 
ODO: And remind everyone that next time they'd better sweep everything. A changeling can be anything. A post, a pillar, even a patch of reflective surfacing. 
O'BRIEN: We get the message, Constable. 
ODO: I hope so, Chief. Just remember that the Founders are even better shape-shifters than I am. 
QUARK: Excuse me. If you're done scaring my customers away, I'd like to open the bar. 
KIRA: Go right ahead. 
QUARK: Thank you. Constable, it just occurred to me that if I knew in advance how just long it'll take them for to catch you during the next drill? Well, let's just say you and I could share a substantial profit. 
(Odo stalks off) 
QUARK: Think about it. 
(Quark leaves) 
KIRA: Performance reviews will be held starting at oh eight hundred hours tomorrow in the wardroom. Check your team leaders for the schedule. Dismissed. 
(Kira and Sisko walk off together.) 
KIRA: How about some dinner? 
SISKO: Not tonight. I have a previous engagement. 
KIRA: Oh, that's right. Captain Yates got in this morning. Give her my regards. 
SISKO: I will. 
[Sisko's quarters]
(A candle-lit dinner for two is planned.) 
SISKO: Come in. 
KASIDY: Hello, Ben. I hope I'm not too late. 
SISKO: Some things are worth waiting for. 
(She strokes his 'bald' head) 
KASIDY: Nice. 
SISKO: I'm glad you like it. (he gives her a box) For you. 
KASIDY: Isn't that a coincidence? I have something for you, too. Oh, where did you find Tholian silk? 
SISKO: The Tholian ambassador owed me a favour. May I? 
KASIDY: It's not silk, but I think you'll like it. 
(A baseball cap.) 
KASIDY: It's from my brother's team. 
SISKO: The Pike City Pioneers. 
KASIDY: My brother says if you're ever on Cestus Three, he'll get you seats in the dugout. 
SISKO: How far is Cestus Three? 
KASIDY: Eight weeks at maximum warp. 
SISKO: To see a real baseball game, it might be worth the trip. 
KASIDY: If you ever decide to go, I'll take you there myself. As long as you don't mind travelling by freighter. 
SISKO: I just might take you up on that. 
KASIDY: (sees the table) Did you do this all yourself? 
SISKO: My father always says the way to a woman's heart is through her stomach. 
KASIDY: So it's my heart you're after. 
SISKO: I never could keep a secret. 
KASIDY: In that case, maybe you could tell me what all those maintenance crews are doing in the docking ring. 
SISKO: Just some retrofitting. 
KASIDY: Now you are keeping a secret. 
SISKO: Let's just say we're preparing a few surprises just in case the Dominion comes through the wormhole. 
KASIDY: Seems like everyone's got the Dominion on their minds these days. I hear the Cardassians have even sealed their borders. 
SISKO: What do you say we forget about business for a while? 
KASIDY: I'd say that's a good idea. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
DAX [OC]: I think you'd better get up here. 
SISKO: On my way. I'll be back as soon as I can. 
KASIDY: I know you will. 
[Ops]
DAX: Benjamin, take a look at this. We've got some unexpected company. (There's a Klingon ship on the viewscreen) 
DAX: It's just decloaked. 
SISKO: Ah. The new Klingon flagship. 
DAX: The Negh'Var. There's a General Martok on board asking to speak with you. 
SISKO: Put him through. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: Captain Sisko. I bring greetings from your allies in the Klingon Empire. 
(Everyone say Hi! to 
J G Hertzler
.) 
SISKO: Welcome to Deep Space Nine, General. Is there something I can do for you? 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: It has been a long journey. My men require shore leave. 
SISKO: Certainly. They can come aboard any time they like. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: Good. Sowee tah. 
(And an entire Klingon fleet shimmers into view, and we get to see there are three pips on Dax's collar.) 
[Quark's]
(There are lots of Klingons in the bar, and Miles is demonstrating catching sand peas in his mouth.) 
BASHIR: Chief, I'm beginning to think there's no limit to the wonders you can perform. 
O'BRIEN: That's what I like about you, Julian. You're easily impressed. 
BASHIR: Thank you, Quark. Can we get a little yamok sauce for these sand peas? Quark? 
QUARK: Listen, do you hear that? 
BASHIR: I don't hear a thing. 
QUARK: Exactly. The ambient noise level in this room is less than thirty decibels. On an average day it's sixty five. When there're Klingons in the room, it can go as high as eighty-five. 
O'BRIEN: So what you're saying is, it's quiet in here. 
QUARK: Too quiet. Something is terribly wrong. 
BASHIR: Like what? 
QUARK: I don't know. But have you ever met a quiet Klingon before? Look how they're watching the room. It's like they're picking out targets. Where are you going? 
O'BRIEN: I thought I'd ask the Klingons what they're up to. 
QUARK: Don't do that. 
O'BRIEN: Why not? 
QUARK: I don't want them to know we're on to them. 
O'BRIEN: Well, suit yourself. 
(O'Brien sits down again. Bashir tries the sand pea flip trick and misses.) 
O'BRIEN: The secret is positioning the pea correctly on the hand. 
BASHIR: But I thought I had that. 
QUARK: What are you two doing? I'm telling you, the Klingons are up to something. 
BASHIR: Calm down, Quark. The Klingons are our allies. 
QUARK: They might be your allies, but they're not mine. 
O'BRIEN: Relax. If something's up with the Klingons, Captain Sisko will find out about it. 
QUARK: Yeah. But will he tell me? 
[Wardroom]
SISKO: So, what brings you here, General? 
MARTOK: A valid question. But first, let us be sure we are all who we say we are. 
(Martok cuts the palm of his hand with his dagger, and lets the blood drip onto the table) 
KIRA: You think we're changelings? 
MARTOK: What I think doesn't matter. The blood will tell. 
(Sisko cuts his hand and lets the blood drip. Kira does the same.) 
SISKO: Now that that's over with. 
MARTOK: We have been sent here to fight alongside our Federation allies against the Dominion. 
SISKO: I appreciate your gesture, but I'm not sure it's necessary. 
MARTOK: The Klingon High Council thinks it is. 
SISKO: Our communications relay in the Gamma Quadrant hasn't detected any signs of Jem'Hadar activity for quite some time. They seem to be giving the wormhole a wide berth. 
MARTOK: They will come. And when they do, we will be ready for them. 
[Holosuite - Trill public baths]
(Kira is in the steam room when Dax enters with to muscular male escorts.) 
DAX: Oh, there you are. We've been looking all over for you. Malko here just gave me the most amazing massage, and I'm sure if you ask nicely he'll do the same for you. 
KIRA: No, thanks. 
DAX: Why? 
KIRA: Because Malko's not real. He's a puppet made out of holographic light and replicated matter. 
DAX: Boys, can you wait outside? 
KIRA: Are you afraid I hurt their feelings? 
DAX: You really should try to get into the spirit of things. People come from all over Trill to visit the Hoobishan Baths. 
KIRA: And if I'm ever on Trill I'll visit them too. But we're not on Trill and this isn't the Hoobishan Baths. It's a holosuite and none of it is real. 
DAX: And? 
KIRA: And? I'm sorry. I feel silly. 
DAX: Good. That's what a holosuite's for. To have a good time. All you have to do is relax and use your imagination. 
KIRA: I guess I don't have much of an imagination. 
DAX: Of course you do. Everyone does. Didn't you play make-believe when you were a child? 
KIRA: Yeah. I used to make-believe that the Cardassians would stop killing the Bajorans and just go away. 
DAX: I'm sorry, I didn't mean to 
KIRA: No. I'm sorry. I guess I never had much use for my imagination. I mean, look at me. You plan a fun evening for us and all I can do is sit here and worry about Klingons. 
DAX: You can worry about the Klingons tomorrow. From what I hear, they're not going anywhere. And as for your underdeveloped imagination, I prescribe a strict regimen of exercise starting immediately. 
KIRA: All right. I'll give it a try. 
DAX: That's all I ask. Come on. Malko couldn't have gone far. 
[Replimat]
(Breakfast, as the Promenade starts to come to life.) 
GARAK: Fascinating. So both the cup and the liquid are merely extensions of your body. 
ODO: That is correct. And if I want to, I can even drink the liquid, reabsorb it, and produce new coffee in the cup. (he demonstrates) This way I can give the illusion that I'm sharing in the dining experience. 
GARAK: Very thoughtful. Tell me, Odo, have you heard any news from Cardassia lately? 
ODO: Not since they sealed their borders. 
GARAK: Well I have, and frankly I don't like what I've heard. Rumours of uprisings, civil disturbance. It's all very alarming. 
ODO: I didn't know you still had friends inside the Empire. 
GARAK: One or two, but I can't even get through to them now. That's what worries me. With the destruction of the Obsidian Order and the threat of the Dominion, these are unsettling times for Cardassia. 
ODO: They're unsettling for everyone. 
DREX [OC]: Stop. What are you doing here? Let me see that. 
(Some Klingons on the Promenade search Morn's bag.) 
DREX [OC]: Two bottles of 
ODO: But if I hear anything, I'll let you know. 
GARAK: I'd appreciate that, Constable. 
ODO: Excuse me for a moment. 
[Promenade]
DREX: So far away from the Hyundite nebula. So what is it that you do on this station? 
ODO: Can I help you? 
DREX: Lohd Zoss-lee chaw-KU sohk jaTAL? 
GARAK: Actually, I'm not sure Constable Odo has a mother. 
ODO: Morn, I believe Ensign Sanders was looking for you. Gentlemen, if you have business on this Promenade, I suggest you get on with it. 
GARAK: I'd listen to him if I were you. 
DREX: I don't take orders from shape-shifters, or their Cardassian lapdogs. 
ODO: I may be a shape-shifter, but I am also Chief of Security of this station. So either move along, or you'll be continuing this conversation from inside a holding cell. 
DREX: As long as you wear that Bajoran uniform, we're allies. Make sure you never take it off. 
ODO: I didn't know you spoke Klingon. 
GARAK: Oh, you'd be surprised at the things you can learn while you're doing alterations. 
[Garak's shop]
(Garak enters and hears a noise. Two Klingons come out of the back of his shop, then three more follow him in and the doors close behind them.) 
GARAK: Let me guess. You're either lost or desperately searching for a good tailor. 
DREX: Guess again. 
(And five Klingons honourably beat up one Cardassian.) 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: I can't believe you're not pressing charges. 
GARAK: Constable Odo and Captain Sisko expressed similar concern. But really, Doctor, there was no harm done. 
BASHIR: They broke seven of your transverse ribs and fractured your clavicle. 
GARAK: Ah, but I got off several cutting remarks which no doubt did serious damage to their egos. 
BASHIR: Garak, this isn't funny. 
GARAK: I'm serious, Doctor. Thanks to your ministrations, I am almost completely healed. But the damage I did to them will last a lifetime. What I can't understand is their inexplicable hostility toward me. Maligning Constable Odo is one thing. After all, he's a changeling. The Klingons don't know him as well as we do. But relations between the Klingon and Cardassian Empires have never been anything but amicable. 
BASHIR: With the exception of the Betreka Nebula incident. 
GARAK: A minor skirmish. 
BASHIR: That lasted eighteen years. 
GARAK: That was ages ago. Perhaps they decided they just didn't like me? 
BASHIR: Not like you? Impossible. 
GARAK: You're right, as always, Doctor. They must have mistaken me for someone else. 
[Captain's office]
KIRA: The Klingon ships keep cloaking and decloaking, so it's impossible to get an exact count, but so far we've been able to identify at least twenty different warships in the vicinity of the station. 
DAX [OC]: Captain, we're receiving a priority one distress call from the freighter Xhosa. 
KIRA: Kasidy's ship? 
SISKO: She left the station an hour ago. Put her through. 
KASIDY [on monitor]: This is the freighter Xhosa to Deep Space Nine. We're under attack by 
[Ops]
DAX: Her signal's been jammed. 
SISKO: Get a fix on her location. Tell the crew on the Defiant to man their stations. We'll meet you on the bridge. (to turbolift) Defiant. 
[Bridge]
DAX: Forward scanners are detecting the Xhosa at bearing zero one seven mark three four six. 
KIRA: I'm picking up another ship. It's got a tractor beam on the Xhosa. 
SISKO: On screen. 
KIRA: A Klingon ship. 
DAX: I can't get through to Kasidy. They're still jamming her communications. 
SISKO: Hail the Klingon vessel. 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: This is Commander Kaybok of the M'Char. What is it you want? 
SISKO: I want to know why you stopped that ship. 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: We have orders to search all vessels attempting to leave Bajoran space. 
KIRA: Search them for what? 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: For shape-shifters. Each ship will be scanned, its cargo searched, and its crewmembers and passengers subjected to genetic testing. 
SISKO: On whose authority? 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: On the authority of Gowron and the Klingon High Council. 
KIRA: The Klingon High Council has no jurisdiction over ships in Bajoran space. 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: We assumed you would welcome our assistance. 
SISKO: Do you have any evidence that there are changelings aboard this particular ship? 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: How can we have evidence until we conduct our tests? 
KIRA: Commander, Bajoran law strictly prohibits any unwarranted search and seizure of vessels in our territory. 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: I have my orders. 
(transmission ends) 
DAX: The Klingon ship has increased power to its tractor beam. It looks like they're preparing to board the Xhosa. 
SISKO: Major, raise shields. Power up the forward phasers. See if that gets their attention. 
KIRA: Shields up. Forward phasers standing by. 
DAX: They're still not releasing the tractor beam. 
SISKO: Fire a warning shot two hundred metres off their starboard bow. 
KIRA: Yes, sir. 
DAX: Commander Kaybok would like to speak with you. 
SISKO: Let's hear what he has to say. 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: Captain, this is outrageous. 
SISKO: I agree, but you leave me no choice. You're violating Bajoran law. Now, I will ask you one last time. Release that ship immediately. 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: We are your allies. 
SISKO: Major, lock phasers on M'Char's engines. Prepare to fire on my command. 
KIRA: Phasers ready. 
KAYBOK [on viewscreen]: Kltrek im stram. Gowron will hear of this. 
DAX: I'm receiving a hail from the Xhosa. It's Captain Yates. 
SISKO: Put her through. 
KASIDY [on viewscreen]: Captain, I don't know what you said to those Klingons, but it must have been good. 
SISKO: Is everyone all right? 
KASIDY [on viewscreen]: Everyone is fine. 
SISKO: I'm glad to hear it. We'll keep you on sensors as long as we can, but I doubt the Klingons will give you any more trouble. 
KASIDY [on viewscreen]: I appreciate that, Captain. I'll see you in about two weeks. 
SISKO: You know where to find me. 
[Captain's office]
DAX: According to our long-range sensors, the Klingon task force has withdrawn to just outside Bajoran territory. 
SISKO: So now they're in unclaimed space. And if they decide to continue searching ships 
DAX: There's nothing we can do about it unless they try to stop a Federation or Bajoran vessel. 
SISKO: Which, so far, they haven't done. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Captain, General Martok is here to see you. 
SISKO: Send him in. Ah, General, we need to talk. 
(Martok thumps a dagger onto the desk.) 
MARTOK: Sohk vad. 
(Martok leaves. Dax picks up the daggar.) 
DAX: It's Commander Kaybok's. 
SISKO: Why did he give it to me? 
DAX: He's letting you know Kaybok's dead. Martok probably had him executed for disobeying orders. 
SISKO: Which means our next confrontation with the Klingons won't be resolved so easily. Any suggestions, old man? 
DAX: The longer the Klingons are here, the worse things are going to get. Whatever you decide to do, you'd better do it soon. 
SISKO: Curzon told me once that in the long run, the only people who can really handle the Klingons are Klingons. Get me Starfleet Command. 
[Corridor]
(A pair of shiny boots steps out of the airlock. We pan up to a baldrick crossing a gold TNG uniform, and a familiar non-human face.) 
O'BRIEN: Commander Worf. 
WORF: Chief. It has been a long time. 
O'BRIEN: Too long. Welcome aboard. 
QUARK: Just what the station needs. Another Klingon. 
[Captain's office]
WORF: Lieutenant Commander Worf reporting for duty, sir. 
SISKO: It's good to have you aboard, Commander. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
SISKO: At ease, Mister Worf. 
I was sorry to hear about the Enterprise. She was a good ship.
WORF: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: I understand you've been on extended leave. 
WORF: Yes. I have been visiting the Klingon monastery on Boreth. I found my discussions with the clerics to be there most enlightening. 
SISKO: Well, I hope you'll forgive me for pulling you away from your studies, but I doubt that this assignment will take very long. 
WORF: My leave was almost over, sir. 
SISKO: Do you have any idea where you'll be stationed next? 
WORF: I am considering resigning my commission. 
SISKO: Really? May I ask why? 
WORF: I have spent most of my life among humans. It has not always been easy for me. And since the destruction of the Enterprise, it has become even more difficult. I am no longer sure I belong in this uniform. 
SISKO: Mister Worf, if I told you we didn't need you here, I'd be lying. But if you don't want to take this assignment, I'd understand. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. But until I make my decision, I intend to do my duty. 
SISKO: I'm glad to hear that. I assume you've read my situation report. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: I can't help but feel that General Martok isn't telling the whole truth about this Klingon task force. There are too many unanswered questions. 
WORF: Then I will find you some answers. 
SISKO: Good. If you need any help, let me know. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: Commander. I once thought about resigning from Starfleet too. I know if I had, I would've regretted it. Don't make any quick decisions. 
WORF: I will keep that in mind. 
[Quark's]
QUARK: Let me guess. Klingon bloodwine. 
WORF: Prune juice, chilled. 
QUARK: Prune juice? (gets a Look.) If you say so. 
O'BRIEN: Commander, over here. 
(By the dart board.) 
O'BRIEN: Doctor Julian Bashir, Lieutenant Commander Worf. 
BASHIR: Care for a game of darts? 
WORF: I do not play games. 
O'BRIEN: It's like poker, but with pointed tips. All right then, think of it as target practice. 
BASHIR: The object is to throw this dart and hit that board over there. 
O'BRIEN: Aim for the dot in the middle. 
(Worf misses the bull, but the dart is half-buried in the eleven.) 
KIRA [OC]: Well, you saw how he was acting. 
DAX [OC]: I can't believe you did that. 
(Kira and Dax come down the stairs dressed as medieval ladies.) 
KIRA: He didn't leave me any choice. 
BASHIR: Wait, wait, wait. What did she do? 
DAX: She knocked out Lancelot. 
KIRA: He kissed me. 
DAX: He's supposed to kiss you. 
KIRA: But I was playing a married woman. 
BASHIR: Lieutenant Commander Worf, this is Lieutenant Commander Jadzia Dax, and Major Kira Nerys, our first officer. 
WORF: Nice hat. 
KIRA: (pulling the wimple off) I don't usually dress like this. We were in the holosuite. 
WORF: So I gathered. You used to be Curzon Dax. 
DAX: That's right. And I don't usually dress like this either. 
WORF: Curzon's name is an honoured one among my people. 
DAX: Louk, a jeek cHim talaw. 
WORF: I suppose so. 
DREX: Bloodwine! And hurry! 
(Morn makes a discreet exit.) 
WORF: Excuse me. 
KIRA: What did you say to him? 
DAX: It loses something in the translation. 
DREX: This bloodwine is cold! Get me another one! 
WORF: You are Drex, son of Martok. 
DREX: That's right. 
WORF: I am Worf, son of Mogh. 
(And punches Drex in the face. Drex draws his dagger but misses every thrust and ends up on his back. Worf takes Drex's dagger and snarls at his companions, who back off.) 
DAX: He's good. 
O'BRIEN: What did I tell you? 
[Guest quarters]
(Worf is unpacking a few personal items - a weapon, a picture of him and Alexander - when the doorbell rings.) 
WORF: Enter. 
MARTOK: I have come for my son's d'k tahg. Give it to me or I will take it from you. 
WORF: Now that you are here, I have no further need of it. 
MARTOK: You robbed my son of his honour just to get my attention? 
WORF: You can't take away what someone does not have. 
MARTOK: Are you saying my son is without honour? 
WORF: I am saying your son is a coward and a liar. 
MARTOK: And what of his father? 
WORF: That remains to be seen. 
MARTOK: Tell me, what have I done to earn your disrespect? 
WORF: The misdeeds your troops have committed speak for themselves. Attacking a Cardassian tailor. Detaining and searching ships in neutral space without warning or provocation. And you, executing one of your commanders because he refused to fire on a Federation ship, 
MARTOK: Whatever we have done is in the best interests of the Alpha Quadrant. 
WORF: You must think me a fool to make your lies so transparent. 
MARTOK: I do not wish to quarrel with you, Worf. 
WORF: Nor I with you. The House of Martok is an honoured one, with a proud tradition. But I must know why you are here. 
MARTOK: I am here under the authority of Gowron himself. I am carrying out his orders. That should be all the explanation a Klingon warrior needs. 
WORF: You forget. I am not only a Klingon warrior, I am a Starfleet officer. And Starfleet deserves an explanation. 
MARTOK: They will get one soon enough. Until then, know this. My mission will determine the fate of the Klingon Empire. Interfere, and you risk destroying us all. 
[Holosuite - cave]
(Worf is exercising by fighting skull-headed monsters. Dax enters and he is distracted for the moment. The monster gets some good blows in.) 
DAX: You shouldn't drop your left arm like that. 
WORF: I do not remember asking you for advice. 
DAX: Just trying to help. 
(Worf beats his opponent.) 
DAX: So, how did you like the programme? 
WORF: I found it adequate. Though I was surprised to find a Klingon exercise programme on the holosuite. 
DAX: It's mine. 
WORF: You mean Curzon's. 
DAX: No, I mean it's mine. Computer, bat'leth. I thought you might be tired of fighting holograms. 
WORF: It would not be a fair match. 
DAX: I'll go easy on you. 
WORF: Very well. Defend yourself. 
(They exchange blows.) 
DAX: I hope you're not holding back because I'm a woman. If it makes things any easier, think of me as a man. I've been one several times. 
(Worf disarms Dax, then knocks her legs out from under her so she ends up on her back.) 
DAX: Feel better? I take it your conversation with General Martok didn't go all that well. 
WORF: He was not forthcoming. And he is not the only one. I tried to contact Gowron, Emperor Kahless, even my brother who sits on the High Council. No one will speak with me. 
DAX: Maybe you're going about this the wrong way. With so many Klingons around, there must be someone who owes your family a favour. 
[Guest quarters]
(WOrf has found an older Klingon to get drunk.) 
WORF + HURAGA: (singing) Ej IM-ta fey DE-ja i. Ejdahk-so-TAS ghos va Skral byteek. Empa jaj law-moch jaj-push. Jaj Kayless Molor migh hohk-chew koo. 
HURAGA: Your father and I used to sing that song when you were just a small boy. Did I ever tell you how your father saved my family's honour during our bloodfeud with the House of Duras? 
WORF: Many times. 
HURAGA: It is a good story! 
WORF: Yes, an you tell it well. 
HURAGA: Your father was a great warrior. My family owes him everything we have. I wish there was some way I could repay him. 
WORF: There is. Tell me why the task force is here. The real reason, not the one Martok gave the Federation. 
HURAGA: The real reason? I suppose you have the right to know. You are a Klingon warrior and it would be wrong to keep you away from battle. And it's going to be a glorious battle! 
[Promenade - upper level]
ODO: It all seems simpler from up here, doesn't it? 
WORF: If you are looking to start a conversation, look somewhere else. I would prefer to be left alone. 
ODO: That may be, but you can't stay up here forever. Sooner or later you're going to have to talk to Captain Sisko. Whatever it is you've found out about the Klingons, he should be the first to know. 
WORF: You have been spying on me. 
ODO: As Chief of Security, it's my duty to observe the inhabitants of this station. Since your arrival, you've transmitted an average of five messages a day to the Klingon Homeworld, none of which has gotten a response. Then last night you met with a Klingon officer in your quarters. Since then, you haven't sent a single message. In fact, you've done nothing to further your investigation of the Klingon task force. 
WORF: None of which is your business. 
ODO: The security of this station is my business. Your behaviour leads me to conclude that either you've given up your investigation, in which case it's my duty to take over, or you've found something. Something so disturbing that you're hesitant to inform Captain Sisko. 
WORF: I am not interested in your conclusions. 
ODO: Commander. I just wanted to say that I understand what you're going through. I've also had to choose between duty and loyalty to my people. 
WORF: Yes, I have read your Starfleet security file. 
ODO: Frankly, Mister Worf, I don't care which choice you make. But you owe it to Captain Sisko to let him know which side you're on, before it's too late. Enjoy the view. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: Mister Worf, what can I do for you? 
WORF: Where is Captain Sisko? 
O'BRIEN: I think he's in a briefing session with 
WORF: I need to talk to him. Now. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Cardassia? Why would the Klingons want to invade Cardassia? 
WORF: According to my source, there has been an uprising on the Cardassian homeworld. The Central Command has been overthrown and power transferred to civilian authorities. 
SISKO: Even if your source is correct, what does that have to do with the Klingons? 
WORF: Gowron and the High Council believe the coup was engineered by the Dominion. 
SISKO: Do they have any proof? 
WORF: None that I know of, but they are convinced that civilians could not have overthrown the Central Command without help. 
SISKO: So, by attacking Cardassia they think they're protecting the Alpha Quadrant from the Dominion? Sisko to Dax. Contact General Martok. Tell him I need to meet with him immediately. 
DAX [OC]: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: Mister Worf, I know this hasn't been an easy assignment for you. 
WORF: No, it has not. But I knew this day would come again when I'd be forced to choose between the Federation and the Klingon Empire. 
SISKO: Maybe you don't have to make that choice just yet. I don't think there's any need for you to be there when I meet with Martok. 
WORF: I would prefer to be there. I cannot avoid responsibility for what I have done today. 
[Wardroom]
MARTOK: I must compliment you on your intelligence network, Captain. One day you must tell me how you learned of our plans. 
WORF: General 
SISKO: How I got the information isn't important. 
MARTOK: I think it is. And so will Gowron. 
SISKO: General, I want you to call off this attack. 
MARTOK: And what do you propose we do instead? Stand by and let the Dominion take over the Alpha Quadrant? 
SISKO: You have no proof that there are any Founders on Cardassia. 
MARTOK: The change in government is all the proof we need. 
WORF: And what if you are wrong? 
MARTOK: That would be unfortunate for the Cardassians. 
SISKO: General, the Federation council has made it clear to me that they cannot support your plans to attack Cardassia. 
MARTOK: Are you saying the Federation will sit back and do nothing while Klingon soldiers give their lives to protect the Alpha Quadrant? 
WORF: Starfleet will not participate in an unprovoked invasion. 
MARTOK: Then the victory will be ours alone. 
SISKO: General, I would advise you to reconsider. The Federation Council has informed Gowron that if the attack goes forward, it will jeopardise our treaty with the Klingon Empire. 
MARTOK: Believe me, Captain, we have no wish to antagonise your people. 
SISKO: Then call off the attack. 
MARTOK: I will consult with Gowron. You will have his decision within the hour. 
[Ops]
DAX: Captain, I think you'd better take a look at this. 
(Klingon ships are cloaking and leaving.) 
SISKO: Report. 
DAX: As soon as General Martok beamed back to his ship, he sent a message to the Klingon fleet. It was just one word. In'Cha. 
WORF: Begin. 
O'BRIEN: I'm picking up a huge distortion wave in subspace. The Klingon ships are going to warp. 
KIRA: Can you plot their course? 
O'BRIEN: Judging from the vector of the subspace disturbance I'd say their heading is two six nine mark zero three two. 
SISKO: Straight to the Cardassian Empire. 
[Wardroom]
SISKO: The Federation Council has been trying to contact Gowron. So far, they've had no response. So until they've had a chance to speak with him, we've been ordered not to get involved. 
KIRA: The Bajoran government has agreed to abide by the decisions of the Federation Council. 
BASHIR: So that means we're not going to warn the Cardassians? 
DAX: The Klingons are still our allies. If we warn the Cardassians, we'd be betraying them. 
O'BRIEN: Besides, what if the Klingons are right? What if the Dominion has taken over the Cardassian government? 
ODO: If my people wanted to seize control of Cardassia, that is how they would do it. 
KIRA: The coup could have happened just as easily without the Founders. The Cardassian dissident movement has been gathering strength for years. With the Obsidian Order out of the way, they might have finally succeeded. 
WORF: The issue is not if there are any Founders on Cardassia. There are many Klingons who say we have been at peace too long, that the Empire must expand in order to survive. Fear of the Dominion has given my people an excuse to do what they were born to do. To fight and to conquer. 
SISKO: If they're so eager to fight, who's to say they'll stop with the Cardassians. 
KIRA: Their next target could be anyone. Even the Federation. 
DAX: If I were you, I'd be more worried about Bajor. Think about it. What good would it do for the Klingons to defeat Cardassia, if they don't control the wormhole? 
WORF: Agreed. If my people return to the old ways, no one will be safe. 
SISKO: Then we'll have to make sure that doesn't happen. 
O'BRIEN: But how? The way I see it, we only have got two choices, both of them bad. If we stand by and do nothing, we run the risk of being the Klingons' next target. But if we disobey Starfleet orders and warn the Cardassians, we may end up starting a war with the Klingons. 
SISKO: Which means we need a third option. 
[Garak's shop]
(Morn is buying clothes.) 
GARAK: Trust me, you won't regret this. When it comes to keeping warm, nothing beats Vitarian wool undergarments. And in case you change your mind about the earmuffs, I'll keep them on hold for you. 
(Morn leaves) 
SISKO [OC]: Mister Garak, I'd like to see you in the wardroom immediately. Bring your tailor's kit. 
[Wardroom]
DAX: All together we're talking about well over a hundred ships, just in the first wave. 
GARAK: Excuse me. I hope I'm not interrupting. 
SISKO: I'd like to be measured for a new suit. 
GARAK: Now? 
SISKO: Right now. 
GARAK: But Captain, I do have your measurements. 
SISKO: Take them again. You were saying, Commander? 
DAX: I was saying that between ground forces and warships, the Klingons have committed almost a third of their military to this invasion. 
SISKO: How long before they reach their target? 
WORF: According to our estimates, the task force should enter Cardassian space within the hour. 
SISKO: Don't forget the waist. I think I've lost a little weight. 
GARAK: Thank you, Captain. I believe I have everything I need. 
[Garak's shop]
DUKAT [on monitor]: The Klingons? Why would the Klingons invade us? 
GARAK: According to my sources, the Klingon High Council believes that Cardassia has been taken over by the Founders. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: That's ridiculous. 
GARAK: Is it? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Garak, you have got to talk to Sisko. Tell him he has to find a way to stop the Klingons. Cardassia has enough problems right now. 
GARAK: You're having trouble keeping the civilians in line? 
DUKAT: How do you know about that? 
GARAK [on monitor]: I'm afraid that since the fall of the Obsidian Order, Cardassian security isn't what it used to be. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Yes. Shame about the Order. I suppose there won't be much of a demand for your services anymore. Looks like you'll be hemming women's dresses for the rest of your life. 
GARAK: We can stand here all day reminding ourselves just how much we hate each other, but you don't have the time. The Klingon fleet will reach Cardassian territory in less than one hour. I suggest you prepare for them. 
[Ops]
(The War Game is being monitored on the big table) 
KIRA: Based on Klingon transmissions we've intercepted, the outlying Cardassian colonies were overrun almost immediately. But, now that the Cardassian fleet has mobilised, the Klingons are meeting stronger resistance. 
DAX: You'd almost think somebody warned the Cardassians they were coming. 
KIRA: Hopefully it'll make the Klingons think twice about what they're doing. 
WORF: Unlikely, Major. Now that the battle has begun, Martok and his troops will settle for nothing less than victory. 
(Sisko enters from his office.) 
O'BRIEN: Well, what did the Federation Council say? 
SISKO: They've decided to condemn the Klingon invasion. In response, Gowron has expelled all Federation citizens from the Klingon Empire and recalled his ambassadors from the Federation. 
KIRA: You're saying he cut off diplomatic relations? 
SISKO: He's done more than that. The Klingons have withdrawn from the Khitomer Accords. The peace treaty between the Federation and the Klingon Empire has ended. 
O'BRIEN: Captain, you're never going to believe this. A Klingon ship just decloaked off upper pylon three and is requesting permission to dock. They claim they have Chancellor Gowron on board and he is demanding to speak with Mister Worf, personally. 
[Klingon Bridge]
WORF: Chancellor Gowron. You wished to speak with me? 
GOWRON: Worf. Worf! It is good to see you. I always said that uniform would get you into trouble one day. 
WORF: It seems you were right. But I do not apologise for my actions 
GOWRON: Yes, yes. I know. you did what you thought was right. And even though you may have made some enemies, I assure you I am not one of them. 
WORF: I am glad. Your friendship means much to me. 
GOWRON: And yours to me. It has been too long since you last fought at my side. But now the time has come again. We will do great deeds in the coming days. Deeds worthy of song. 
WORF: You want me to go to Cardassia with you? 
GOWRON: What better way to redeem yourself in the eyes of your people. Come with me, Worf. Glory awaits you on Cardassia. Worf, why do you stand there like a mute d'blok. I have offered you a chance for glory. All you have to do is take it. 
WORF: If there's any glory to be won, Gowron, it'll have to be yours alone. I cannot come with you. 
GOWRON: Of course you can. It is where you belong. 
WORF: I cannot abandon my post. 
GOWRON: You no longer have a post. You have no place on that station, and no business wearing that uniform. 
WORF: I have sworn an oath of allegiance. 
GOWRON: To the Federation. 
WORF: You would have me break my word? 
GOWRON: Your word? What good is your word when you give it to people who care nothing for honour, who refuse to lift a finger while Klingon warriors shed blood for their protection. I tell you, they are without honour. You do not owe them anything. 
WORF: It is not what I owe them that matters. It is what I owe myself. Worf, son of Mogh, does not break his word. 
GOWRON: And what of your debt to me? Are you saying you owe me nothing? I gave you back your name, restored your house, gave your family a seat on the High Council. And this is how you repay me? 
WORF: It is true I owe you a great debt. I would give up my life for you. But invading Cardassia is wrong, and I cannot support it. 
GOWRON: Worf, I have always considered you a friend and an ally. And because you are my friend, I am giving you this one last chance to redeem yourself. Come with me. 
WORF: I cannot. 
GOWRON: Think about what you are doing. If you turn your back on me now, for as long as I live, you will not be welcome anywhere in the Klingon Empire. Your family will be removed from the High Council, your lands seized, and your House stripped of its titles. You will have nothing. 
WORF: Except my honour. 
GOWRON: So be it. 
[Quark's cafe]
(As happy gamblers play below, Worf sits alone at a table and stare at nothing.) 
O'BRIEN: You look like you could use some company. 
WORF: Chief, do you remember the time we rescued Captain Picard from the Borg? 
O'BRIEN: How could I forget? It was touch and go there for a while. There were a couple of moments when I thought we were all going to wind up being assimilated. 
WORF: I never doubted the outcome. We were like warriors from the ancient sagas. There was nothing we could not do. 
O'BRIEN: Except keep the holodecks working right. 
WORF: I have decided to resign from Starfleet. 
O'BRIEN: Resign? What are you talking about? 
WORF: I have made up my mind. It is for the best. 
O'BRIEN: Look, I know how much you miss the Enterprise, but I'm sure they'll be building a new one soon. 
WORF: It will not be the same. The Enterprise I knew is gone. Those were good years, but now it is time for me to move on. 
O'BRIEN: And do what? 
WORF: I do not know. I thought I would be returning to Boreth, but now that is impossible. I have made an enemy of Gowron, and every other Klingon in the Empire. 
O'BRIEN: All the more reason to stay in Starfleet. 
WORF: This uniform will only serve to remind me of how I have disgraced myself in the eyes of my people. I suppose I could get a berth on a Nyberrite Alliance Cruiser. They are always eager to hire experienced officers. 
O'BRIEN: The Nyberrite Alliance? That's a long way. What about your son? 
WORF: Alexander is much happier living with his grandparents on Earth than he ever was staying with me. One thing is certain. The sooner I leave here, the better. My continued presence on Deep Space Nine would only be a liability to Captain Sisko in his dealings with the Klingons. 
QUARK: Do you hear that, Chief? Seventy two decibels. Music to my ears. 
O'BRIEN: I think I liked it better when it was quiet. 
QUARK: You want quiet, go to the Replimat. This is Quark's the way Quark's should be. The way it was meant to be. Am I glad we finally got rid of all those Klingons. Present company excepted, of course. 
(Worf leaves.) 
O'BRIEN: I got to hand it to you, Quark. You really know how to make your customers feel welcome. 
QUARK: What do I care? All he ever drinks is prune juice. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: I'm sorry, Mister Worf, but I can't accept your resignation at this time. 
WORF: I do not understand. What further use could I be here? 
SISKO: I'm not sure yet. But as long as the fighting continues between the Klingons and the Cardassians, I need you here on the station. 
WORF: If you think that is wise. 
SISKO: I don't know if it's wise or not. But I do know that you're a good officer, and right now I need every good officer I can get. 
(Kira enters) 
KIRA: Captain, we just got word from Bajoran Intelligence. The Klingons have broken through the Cardassian fleet. 
SISKO: How long before they reach Cardassia Prime? 
KIRA: Fifty two hours. 
WORF: If the Klingon Empire has reverted to the old practices, they will occupy the Cardassian homeworld, execute all government officials, and install an imperial overseer to put down any further resistance. 
SISKO: I think it's about time we had a talk with the Cardassians. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Captain, I'm a little busy at the moment, so whatever you have to say, make it brief. 
SISKO: Dukat? I was trying to reach someone in the civilian government. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: And you have succeeded. You are speaking to the new Chief Military Advisor to the Detapa Council. 
SISKO: Does this mean you've turned your back on the Central Command? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: It means that as a loyal officer of the Cardassian Military, I am pledged to serve the legitimate ruling body of the Empire. Whoever that may be. 
SISKO: In other words, you saw which way the wind was blowing and switched sides. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: It seemed like a good idea at the time. 
SISKO: Dukat, you have got to get those council members to safety before the Klingons reach Cardassia Prime. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: I am open to suggestions, Captain. 
SISKO: If you can get a ship and meet me at these coordinates, I'll do what I can to escort you out of the war zone. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: That is a very generous offer. I must say I am touched. By saving the members of the Detapa Council, you will be saving some very 
SISKO: Forget the speech, Dukat. Just meet me at the rendezvous point. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: And if the Klingons try to stop us? 
SISKO: Then I'll be there to reason with them. I doubt the Klingons will fire on a Federation ship. 
DUKAT: I'm not sure I share your optimism, but then I don't have much choice, do I? We'll meet you there. 
(Transmission ends) 
WORF: Sir, if the Klingons are right, if the Cardassian government has been taken over by the Founders 
SISKO: Then we'll be helping them to escape. That's the chance we'll have to take. I know you want to be out of that uniform but right now I need you with me. 
WORF: I understand. 
[Corridor]
SISKO: Make sure the chief double checks all our new systems. We may need them. 
KIRA: I'll tell him. But knowing the chief, he's probably doing it already. 
SISKO: Keep the station on yellow alert. And just to be on the safe side, I'd recommend that you send some of the civilian population down to Bajor. 
KIRA: I was planning to. I wish I was going with you. 
SISKO: So do I, but I need you here. 
KASIDY: Ben. I'm glad I caught you before you left. 
SISKO: So am I. When'd you get back? 
KASIDY: Less than an hour ago. Jake told me you were about to go off on some kind of mission. 
SISKO: The Defiant leaves in a few minutes. 
KASIDY: And you can't tell me about it. 
SISKO: I'll be back in four or five days. 
KASIDY: I'm leaving tomorrow. 
SISKO: I guess our timing hasn't been too good. 
KASIDY: No. No, it's been terrible. I'm not even sure when I'll be back. 
SISKO: Make it soon. 
(They kiss) 
KASIDY: Don't get killed. 
SISKO: I'll do my best. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: Activate the cloaking device. 
WEAPONS: Cloaking device is functioning within normal parameters. 
(It's Pat Tallman, everybody.) 
SISKO: Set a course for the rendezvous point. Maximum warp. 
DAX: Course laid in. 
SISKO: Engage. Mister Worf, keep an eye out for Klingon ships, cloaked or otherwise. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
SISKO: Something wrong, Mister Worf? 
WORF: No, sir. Yes, sir. It is just I have never been on a Federation ship that had a cloaking device. It is a little strange. 
SISKO: You'll get used to it. 
BASHIR: Sir, I hate to bring this up, but our agreement with the Romulans expressly prohibits use of the cloaking device in the Alpha Quadrant. 
SISKO: You're right. It does. But there are hundreds of Klingon ships between us and Dukat, and I intend to make that rendezvous in one piece. 
BASHIR: Well, I won't tell the Romulans if you don't. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: I never thought I'd say this, but right now I'm glad the Dominion's around. Otherwise we never would've started these upgrades, let alone have them almost finished by now. 
KIRA: There's something to be said for incentive. 
O'BRIEN: I just hope everything works okay. 
KIRA: You're saying you're not sure? 
O'BRIEN: The way I see it, there are two possibilities. Either everything'll be fine or 
KIRA: Or? 
O'BRIEN: Or we'll end up blowing the station to pieces. 
KIRA: Oh. Well, let's hope we don't have to find out. 
[Bridge]
WORF: Captain, I'm detecting some debris, bearing zero two five mark three one nine. 
SISKO: Commander, drop is to one quarter impulse. 
DAX: Aye, Captain. 
WORF: It appears to be the wreckage of a number of Cardassian vessels. 
SISKO: On screen. 
BASHIR: Are there any signs of survivors? 
DAX: I suppose it's possible, but there's no way to know without decloaking and using our primary sensor array. 
WORF: Sir, I strongly recommend against that. It is likely there are cloaked Klingon warships in the vicinity, lying in wait. 
BASHIR: Well that doesn't sound very honourable to me. 
WORF: In war, there is nothing more honourable than victory. 
SISKO: Commander, keep us at one quarter impulse until we clear the wreckage, then take us to warp. 
BASHIR: But sir, if there are survivors 
SISKO: I'm sorry, Doctor. We can't risk it. We have to reach Dukat. 
[Engine room]
SISKO: And double check the secondary power grid. It's still not performing as well as it should. 
CREWWOMAN: Yes, sir. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: What's our status? 
DAX: We're approaching the rendezvous point. 
WORF: Captain, I am detecting weapons fire ahead. It appear to be three Birds of Prey attacking a Cardassian vessel. The vessel is badly damaged. 
DAX: Captain, I'm picking up a distress signal from Dukat. Audio only. 
SISKO: Put it through. 
DUKAT [OC]: This is Gul Dukat of the cruiser Prakesh. We're under heavy fire. Our shields are failing. I don't know how much longer we can hold out. Send reinforcements immediately. I repeat, this is 
DAX: We're in visual range. 
SISKO: On screen. Maximum magnification. 
BASHIR: Two decades of peace with the Klingons, and it all comes down to this. 
WORF: Orders, Captain? 
DAX: Benjamin, Dukat's ship isn't going to last much longer. 
SISKO: Arm quantum torpedoes, drop the cloak, and raise shields. We're going in. Red alert. Doctor.
(Bashir leaves.) 
SISKO: Commander Worf, transmit a priority one signal to the Klingon ship. Tell them to break off their attack and stand down immediately. 
WORF: Message sent. Captain, I find it highly unlikely that the Klingons will heed your 
(Boom) 
DAX: We've been fired upon by the lead bird of prey. Shields are holding. 
SISKO: I see your point, Mister Worf. Let's show them what they're up against. Attack pattern omega. Target their engines. 
(One Klingon ship goes arse over tip.) 
WORF: Incoming message from the Cardassian ship. 
SISKO: Put it through. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: I must compliment you, Captain. You're nearly Cardassian in your punctuality. 
DAX: Fire phasers. 
SISKO: Dukat, power up your engines and prepare to follow us back to DS Nine. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: An excellent suggestion, Captain, assuming we had any engines left. 
SISKO: What's your status? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Our engines are gone, our shields are down, and we have no weapons to speak of. 
SISKO: Prepare to evacuate. We'll start to beam you over as soon as possible. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: You'll have to drop your shields to use your transporters. 
SISKO: Let me worry about that. Sisko out. 
(Bang! The weapons officer is down and Worf takes over.) 
WORF: Sir, restricting our fire to their engines has not proven effective. 
SISKO: Very well. Target at your discretion. 
WORF: Aye, aye, sir. 
(KaBOOM!) 
DAX: Dukat's ship is under fire. I don't know how much longer they can hold out. 
WORF: Another Klingon ship has just decloaked. It's a Vor'cha class attack cruiser. 
SISKO: Sisko to transporter bay. Stand by to beam aboard survivors. 
(Boom) 
SISKO: Sisko to Bashir. Prepare to receive casualties. And Doctor, have security standing by. I want our guests to undergo blood screenings. 
BASHIR [OC]: Understood. 
WORF: Blood screenings? 
SISKO: Just in case Martok was right. 
DAX: Benjamin, it's going to take at least two minutes to evacuate Dukat's ship. Even with the Defiant's new armour, I don't think we can last that long with our shields down. 
WORF: Sir, I have a suggestion. 
(Defiant puts a tractor beam on an attacking ship.) 
DAX: You were right, Mister Worf. The modulated tractor beam's deflecting some of the Klingons' disruptor fire. 
WORF: Disruptor's effectiveness at fifty percent. 
SISKO: Well done, Mister Worf. Lower shields. Sisko to transporter bay. Begin emergency transports. 
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Transports underway. 
(Big Bang.) 
DAX: The ablative armour is holding. 
WORF: Klingon ships are closing. Armour on the port side is losing integrity. 
(Bang) 
SISKO: Transporter bay, what's our status? 
[Transporter bay]
DUKAT: Captain, this is Dukat. Almost half the council members are still aboard my ship. We need at least another minute. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: Looks like we're going to find out just how much of a pounding this ship can take. 
WORF: The Klingons have closed to point-blank range. 
(Boom!) 
DAX: Ablative armour has failed. We've got plasma leaks on decks two, three and five, and we've lost our aft torpedo launchers. 
DUKAT [OC]: Dukat to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
[Transporter bay]
DUKAT: The council members are aboard. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: Raise shields. Activate the cloak. 
WORF: Shields up. 
DAX: I'm not getting any response from the cloaking device. It's not working. 
SISKO: Well, that should make the trip home a little more interesting. Set a course for DS Nine. Maximum warp. 
(Dukat's ship goes kaBOOM) 
[Mess hall]
DUKAT: Thank you, Doctor, but if you don't mind, I would like to go to the bridge now. 
BASHIR: This will only take a minute. Your arm please. 
DUKAT: What is the meaning of this? 
BASHIR: Just a simple blood screening. 
DUKAT: I assure you, Doctor, I am not a changeling. 
BASHIR: Then you have nothing to worry about. 
DUKAT: I find this whole procedure offensive. 
BASHIR: And I find you offensive. Now hold out your arm, or I'll have a security officer do it for you. 
[Bridge]
DUKAT: Captain, would you kindly inform this security guard that he does not have to monitor my every move? It makes me feel unwelcome. 
DAX: Looks like I won, Benjamin. You owe me dinner. 
DUKAT: And what is that supposed to mean? 
DAX: Captain Sisko bet me that you would thank him for the rescue before you started complaining. 
SISKO: I lost. 
DUKAT: Captain, are you aware that there's a Klingon on your bridge? 
SISKO: He's not the Klingon you should be worried about. Switch to aft view, maximum magnification. 
(The final Klingon ship is still chasing them.) 
DUKAT: I'd suggest you cloak immediately. 
WORF: We lost our cloaking device rescuing you. 
[Quark's]
GARAK: Might I trouble you for a glass of kanar? 
QUARK: Help yourself. It's on the house. 
GARAK: How uncharacteristically generous of you. 
QUARK: I'm in an uncharacteristic mood. Besides, I've got eighty cases of this stuff sitting in my stockroom. And the way things are going, I'll never unload another bottle unless it's to you. 
GARAK: How thoughtless of me not to consider the effect the destruction of my homeworld would have on your business. These must be trying times for you. Be brave. 
QUARK: I should've listened to my cousin Gaila. He said to me, Quark, I've got one word for you. Weapons. No one ever went broke selling weapons. But did I take his advice? No. And why not? Because I'm a people person. I like interacting with my customers. Like you and I are doing right now. Talking to each other, getting to know one another 
GARAK: I can see the attraction for you. 
QUARK: But when you're dealing in weapons, buyers aren't interested in casual conversation. They just want their merchandise, no questions asked. It's so impersonal. 
GARAK: Your charms would be wasted. 
QUARK: Exactly. So now Gaila owns his own moon, and I'm staring into the abyss. And the worst part is, my only hope for salvation is the Federation. 
GARAK: I know precisely how you feel. 
QUARK: I want you to try something for me. 
(He pours a glass of foamy brown stuff.) 
QUARK: Take a sip of this. 
GARAK: What is it? 
QUARK: A human drink. It's called root beer. 
GARAK: I don't know. 
QUARK: Come on. Aren't you just a little bit curious? 
(Garak sips) 
QUARK: What do you think? 
GARAK: It's vile. 
QUARK: I know. It's so bubbly and cloying and happy. 
GARAK: Just like the Federation. 
QUARK: But you know what's really frightening? If you drink enough of it, you begin to like it. 
GARAK: It's insidious. 
QUARK: Just like the Federation. 
GARAK: Do you think they'll be able to save us? 
QUARK: I hope so. 
[Ops]
KIRA: Any luck? 
O'BRIEN: Not yet. Hold on. I'm picking up something on long-range scanners. It's the Defiant. 
KIRA: They made it. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, but they've got two Klingon ships on their tail. The Captain's hailing us. 
KIRA: On screen. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: Chief, our ETA is in five minutes. Are the new systems online? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: I think we're going to need them. 
O'BRIEN: I wish we could've tested them first. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: No time like the present. 
KIRA: Raise shields. Red alert. 
[Quark's]
(Alarms sound and the customers start to leave.) 
QUARK: Now what? 
GARAK: Well, I can't be sure, of course, but my guess would be Klingons. 
QUARK: The Klingons! First it was the Cardassians, then it was the Dominion, and now it's the Klingons. How's a Ferengi supposed to make an honest living in a place like this? 
[Bridge]
SISKO: Drop out of warp. Reverse thrusters at maximum. Prepare for docking. 
DAX: Aye, sir. 
DUKAT: Well, it looks like the Klingons chased us all this way for nothing. 
WORF: That remains to be seen. Klingons do not give up easily. 
DUKAT: Two ships against the station? I don't think they'd risk it. 
DAX: It may not be much of a risk. 
DUKAT: Why do you say that? 
DAX: They've got friends. 
(There's a whole fleet sitting out there.) 
[Ops]
SISKO: Status report, Major. 
KIRA: I'm detecting several dozen Klingon ships, including the Negh'Var. They're in an attack formation. 
O'BRIEN: While you were gone, we spoke to Starfleet command. They sent a relief force under Admiral Hastur. 
SISKO: When will they get here? 
O'BRIEN: Not soon enough. 
DAX: The Klingon ships have raised their shields and charged their weapons. 
WORF: What are your orders, Captain? 
SISKO: Battle stations. 
[Infirmary]
(Bashir is briefing his medics.) 
BASHIR: The thing to remember is that the Klingons prefer to use their knives and bat'leths in close combat. So if we get boarded, you can expect severe lacerations, broken bones, and blunt force traumas. All I can say is, keep calm, remember your training and do the best that you can. Report to your posts. 
ODO: Doctor. 
BASHIR: Constable. What can I do for you? 
ODO: I just want you to know I'll be assigning a security team to the Infirmary for your protection. 
BASHIR: Thanks, but I'd rather you didn't. I'm going to have wounded people in here. The last thing I need is a team of deputies having a firefight in my doorway. 
ODO: I understand. Just do me a favour. Don't count on that blue uniform to protect you. In the heat of battle, Klingons aren't very choosy about their targets. Doctor or no doctor, you might end up having to defend yourself. 
BASHIR: Well, hopefully it won't come to that. But if it does, I promise you I'll be ready. 
ODO: That's all I ask. 
BASHIR: And while we're on the subject, Constable. I'm sure there's more than one Klingon who thinks that slaying a changeling would be worthy of a song or two. 
ODO: Doctor, if a Klingon were to kill me, I'd expect nothing less than an entire opera on the subject. 
BASHIR: Maybe. I just don't want to have to listen to it. Watch your back. 
[Promenade]
ODO: Come on, Quark. Move along. You should be in an emergency shelter by now. 
QUARK: I'm not going to any emergency shelter. This is my bar and I'm going to defend it. 
ODO: Really? And how do you plan to do that? 
QUARK: With this. 
ODO: You're going to hit them with a box? 
QUARK: No, this is my disruptor pistol. The one I used to carry in the old days when I was serving on that Ferengi freighter. 
ODO: I thought you were the ship's cook. 
QUARK: That's right, and every member of that crew thought he was a food critic. If the Klingons try to get through these doors, I'll be ready for them. 
(Quark opens the box. There's a note inside which Odo takes and reads.) 
ODO: Dear Quark. I used parts of your disruptor to fix the replicators. Will return them soon. Rom. 
QUARK: I will kill him. 
ODO: With what? 
(The Promenade airlock is sealed and Security is stationed all around.) 
[Corridor]
(Dukat and two Starfleet are standing guard on a door at the end.) 
DUKAT: That's close enough, Garak. 
GARAK: I wanted to make sure the council members were safe. 
DUKAT: Hoping, no doubt, that your concern would curry some political favour? 
GARAK: Oh, and I take it your concern is motivated strictly by patriotism. 
DUKAT: Oh, the council members are well aware of my patriotism and the sacrifices I was willing to make in order to save them. Now, why don't you go back to your tailor shop and sew something? 
GARAK: Because if the Klingons do invade this station, you just may need my help. 
(Garak has a disruptor.) 
GARAK: Who would've thought that the two of us would be fighting side by side? 
DUKAT: Just remember when you fire that thing you're aiming it at a Klingon. 
GARAK: I'll try to keep that in mind. 
[Ops]
(Everyone is given a weapon.) 
DAX: We're receiving a transmission from General Martok. 
SISKO: Put him through. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: Captain, I demand you surrender the Cardassian council members to us immediately. 
SISKO: They're not Founders, Martok. We tested them. You were wrong. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: It is of no consequence. All that matters is that the Alpha Quadrant will be safer with the Klingon Empire in control of Cardassia. Now, surrender the council members or we will have no choice but to take them by force. 
SISKO: And risk an all-out war with the Federation? 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: If a war starts here, the blame will be yours. 
SISKO: I doubt very much history will agree. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: History is written by the victors. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: Consider what you're doing, Captain. The lives of everyone on your station are at risk. 
SISKO: I am aware of that. But maybe you're not aware of what you're risking. We've had a year to prepare this station for a Dominion attack and we're more than ready. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: You are like a toothless old grishnar cat, trying to frighten us with your roar. 
SISKO: I can assure you, this old cat may not be as toothless as you think. Right now, I've got five thousand photon torpedoes armed and ready to launch. If you don't believe me, feel free to scan the station. 
[Klingon Bridge]
MARTOK: It's a trick. An illusion created by thoron fields and duranium shadows. 
[Ops]
SISKO: It's no illusion. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: We shall see. Chech chew jaj-Vam jaj-kak! 
WORF: He said, today is a good day to die. 
(And so it begins. Boom. Bang) 
SISKO: Target the lead ships. Ready even-numbered photon launchers. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Weapons turrets come out of the station, the rings and the pylons.) 
SISKO: Fire on my mark. Fire! 
(KaBOOM) 
SISKO: Ready odd numbered launchers. Fire! 
KIRA: They're still closing. 
SISKO: Ready phasers. 
WORF: Standing by. 
SISKO: Fire! 
(KaBOOM, KaBOOM. Still the station shakes.) 
KIRA: Eight Klingon ships destroyed. Several heavily damaged. 
SISKO: Contact Gowron. Maybe we can put an end to this before it gets any farther. 
DAX: They're not responding. 
(Boom!) 
WORF: They have given you your answer, Captain. 
SISKO: Weapons stations, fire at will. 
(And more ships go kaBOOM!) 
[Klingon Bridge]
MARTOK: A klingon kaogh. 
GOWRON: Zo a klingon Hegh-lah. Yod-wee kaW. Tig mang rup. 
MARTOK: Jee yaJ. Duj-va, Yod wee kaW. 
[Ops]
(Consoles start blowing up.) 
DAX: They've disabled two of our shield generators. 
(A boarding party beams in and gets shot, then another. And a third.) 
[Promenade]
(Fights are breaking out all over the place with the defenders having the upper hand for the most part. Odo is hand to hand until Bashir shoots a second Klingon in the back.) 
ODO: Thank you, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Any time. 
[Corridor]
(Garak is using his disruptor while Dukat is having to use a bat'leth.) 
GARAK: I find this hand-to-hand combat really quite distasteful. 
DUKAT: I suppose you prefer the simplicity of an interrogation chamber. 
GARAK: You have to admit, it's much more civilised. 
[Ops]
(More fighting. Kira is honourably stabbed in the back but still manages to disarm her attacker before collapsing. Worf saves O'Brien when he is down. Sisko and Dax are proving expert with bat'leths too. Then there are no more to fight.) 
SISKO: Mister O'Brien? 
O'BRIEN: Yeah. 
SISKO: Get those shields back online. Major? 
KIRA: I'll be okay. It's not as bad as it looks. 
SISKO: Sisko to Odo. 
ODO [OC]: Odo here. 
SISKO: Status report. 
ODO [OC]: We have Klingon troops on the Promenade 
[Promenade]
ODO: The habitat ring, and lower pylon three. They seem to be contained for the moment, but I can't guarantee it'll stay 
[Ops]
ODO [OC]: That way. 
SISKO: Keep me informed. 
WORF: There is another wave of Klingon ships coming in. 
O'BRIEN: I've got the shields back up, but I don't know how long they'll hold. 
DAX: I'm reading a cluster of warp signatures approaching, bearing one eight seven mark zero two five. It's Starfleet, Benjamin. Six starships, led by the Venture. They'll be here in fifteen minutes. 
SISKO: Contact the Negh'Var again. Maybe now Gowron will be in the mood to talk. 
DAX: I've got him. 
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: Captain, your shields have been weakened, your station boarded, and more Klingon ships are on their way. Surrender while you can. 
SISKO: I don't think so. My shields are holding, your boarding parties are contained, and my reinforcements are closer than yours. You're facing a war on two fronts. Is that what you really want? 
WORF: The Empire is not strong enough to fight the Federation and the Cardassians. End this now, Gowron, before you lead the Empire to its worst defeat in history. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: We will not surrender! 
SISKO: This is exactly what the Founders want. Klingon against Cardassian, Federation against Klingon. The more we fight each other, the weaker we'll get, and the less chance we have against the Dominion. 
WORF: Consider what you do here, Gowron. Kahless himself said, destroying an Empire to win a war is no victory. 
[Klingon Bridge]
GOWRON: And ending a battle to save an Empire is no defeat. 
MARTOK: We can still win! 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: Not before those starships get here. Now, what do I tell them? To stand down or to come in firing? 
GOWRON: It is we who shall stand down. 
MARTOK: Ach Gowron, yay chol.
GOWRON: Enough. Cease fire. Order our ships in Cardassian territory to halt their advance. I do not intend to hand victory to the Dominion. But let your 
[Ops]
GOWRON [on viewscreen]: People know, the Klingon Empire will remember what has happened here. You have sided against us in battle, and this we do not forgive or forget. 
(Transmission ends) 
DAX: The Klingon ships have powered down their weapons. 
O'BRIEN: It's over. 
WORF: For now. 
Captain's log, stardate 49011.4. Gowron has returned to the Klingon home world and his task force has withdrawn from Bajoran space. I don't know if I can fully express the pride I felt at seeing how well Deep Space Nine and it's crew weathered this latest crisis. While the station suffered heavy damage during the Klingon attack, repairs are well ahead of schedule and life on the station is beginning to return to normal, leaving me with one final piece of unfinished business. 
[Promenade]
(Morn is the first customer back in Quark's before the doors are fully open.) 
[Worf's quarters]
(Worf is packing his uniform.) 
WORF: Enter. 
SISKO: I brought your discharge papers. I thought you might want to take a look at them before I send them off to Starfleet. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
SISKO: I understand you're headed for the Nyberrite Alliance. 
WORF: Yes. I leave this afternoon. 
SISKO: For me, it was a job on Earth, directing construction of orbital habitats. 
WORF: Why did you change your mind? 
SISKO: I finally realised that it wasn't Starfleet I wanted to get away from. I was trying to escape the pain I felt after my wife's death. I thought I could take the uniform, wrap it around that pain and toss them both away. But it doesn't work like that. Running may help for a little while, but sooner or later the pain catches up with you, and the only way to get rid of it is to stand your ground and face it. 
WORF: But wearing that uniform must remind you of what you have lost. 
SISKO: Sometimes. But it also reminds me of what I've gained, and who I am. Oh, I can throw away the uniform, resign my commission, run all the way to the Nyberrite Alliance, but it really wouldn't matter. A Starfleet officer. That's what I am, and that's what I'll always be. 
WORF: And you think that is true of me as well. 
SISKO: What's important, Mister Worf, is what you think. 
WORF: I think Starfleet has been my home for many years. Perhaps it still is. 
SISKO: There are starships out there that are in need of good officers. In fact, the captain of the Venture is a friend of mine. If you'd like, I can talk to him, see if he has an opening for a lieutenant commander. 
WORF: Perhaps that will not be necessary. 
[Ops]
(Worf enters in red shouldered DS9 uniform and his sash) 
WORF: Lieutenant Commander Worf reporting for duty. 
SISKO: Well, you all know our new strategic operations officer. 
ODO: Commander. 
WORF: Thank you. Thank you. 
O'BRIEN: Congratulations. 
SISKO: Assume your post, Mister Worf. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
O'BRIEN: You look good in red. 
WORF: It feels good. But I have a lot to learn about Command. 
O'BRIEN: Well, you couldn't ask for a better teacher. 
SISKO: Now that everyone is here, I wanted you to know I've spoken to Dukat and several members of the Detapa Council. They've returned to Cardassia Prime without incident and wanted me to convey to you their personal thanks. 
KIRA: Who'd have thought I'd help save the Cardassian government? 
ODO: Don't worry. I'm sure Dukat will take all the credit. 
BASHIR: Poor Garak. Dukat's a hero, and Garak's still stuck in his tailor shop hemming trousers. 
DAX: Captain, I'm receiving a priority one message from Starfleet Intelligence. The Klingons are refusing to give up several of the Cardassian colonies they seized during the invasion. They're fortifying their positions and deploying orbital defence systems. 
KIRA: Looks like the Klingons are here to stay. 
SISKO: Maybe they are. But so are we. 

