Episode Number: 475
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Hippocratic Oath
Hippocratic Oath
Stardate: 49066.5
Original Airdate: 16 Oct, 1995
[Quark's]
(Worf is comparing a customer file 4747 on his PADD - a wanted notice.) 
QUARK: That is the worst mugshot I've ever seen. I've never understood why law enforcement agencies don't keep better visual records. You'd think they'd be concerned about little things like making an accurate identification. 
WORF: This picture is accurate enough to establish that your customer is Regana Tosh, who is known to be associated with a Markalian smuggling operation. 
QUARK: Really? Well, everyone is welcome at Quark's. I don't discriminate. Just like Starfleet. They have a non-discrimination policy too, don't they, Commander? I guess we have something in common. 
KIRA: You have more in common with a Rakonian swamp rat, Quark. 
QUARK: Major. Always a delight to see you here. What can I get for you? 
KIRA: Tarkalean tea. But not too sweet this time. Catching up on some work? 
WORF: Not exactly. That man arrived on the station this afternoon and came directly here. I believe the Ferengi bartender is plotting something with him. 
KIRA: I wouldn't be surprised. Quark's always up to something. 
WORF: If he is a known criminal, why does your security chief not do anything about him? 
KIRA: Odo keeps him in check. 
WORF: Yes. But not in prison. 
Medical Officer's log, stardate 49066.5 Chief O'Brien and I have concluded our bio-survey of Merik Three in the Gamma Quadrant. We're on course back to the wormhole and should arrive at the station two days ahead of schedule. 
[Runabout Rubicon]
O'BRIEN: Keiko only spends a few days at a time on the station. I'm the one living in those quarters, and if I want to set up a little workshop in the bedroom 
BASHIR: You set up a workshop in the bedroom? 
O'BRIEN: Yeah. I don't use it when she's visiting. 
BASHIR: Of course not. 
O'BRIEN She says I'm trying to live like a bachelor again, that I'm expressing a subconscious desire to push her out of our quarters. 
BASHIR: Now that is ridiculous. 
O'BRIEN: That's what I said. 
BASHIR: I mean, if anything, by spending your free time in the bedroom, a place you intimately associate with Keiko, you are actually expressing a desire to be closer to her during her absence. It's quite touching, really. 
O'BRIEN: Exactly. Exactly. See, you understand. Now, why can't she see that? Why can't she be more like 
BASHIR: More like? 
O'BRIEN: Well, a man. More like a man. 
BASHIR: So you wish Keiko was a man? 
O'BRIEN: I wish I was on this trip with someone else, that's what I wish. 
(beep) 
O'BRIEN: We're picking up a subspace magneton pulse, bearing zero nine zero mark one one five. The Bopak system. 
BASHIR: What's a magneton pulse? 
O'BRIEN: It's a burst of polarised magnetic energy. It's usually produced by a damaged warp core. 
BASHIR: So there could be a ship in trouble? 
O'BRIEN: Possibly. Let's take a look. 
(At the planet) 
O'BRIEN: I'm having trouble pinpointing the source of the plasma surge. Too much EM interference in the atmosphere. But it's definitely down there somewhere. 
BASHIR: According to our records, Bopak Three is uninhabited. The nearest Dominion outpost is six weeks away and this system is well off the established trade routes in the Gamma Quadrant. 
O'BRIEN: Strange place for a ship to set down even if it was having engine trouble. Of course it could be an anomalous reading, but I'd feel a lot better if we could. Hold on. There's some kind of energy surge on 
(Bang, red alert) 
BASHIR: What the hell? 
O'BRIEN: We've been hit by a plasma field. We're losing main power. Switching to auxiliary units. The field's draining our power. I can't break free. 
BASHIR: We're losing altitude. 
O'BRIEN: Send out a distress call. I'll try and get us down in one piece. 
BASHIR: And the comm. system's jammed. 
O'BRIEN: I'm reading a clearing up ahead. I think we can make it. Hold on. 
(They career through the tree tops and make it down safely) 
[Jungle]
(It's lush and gloomy, with insect sounds.) 
BASHIR: What a lovely place. Smells like a garbage dump. 
O'BRIEN: I'm sorry I couldn't find a nicer place to crash-land. Should we try again? 
(Six Jem'Hadar shimmer into view) 
GORAN'AGAR: Do not move. You are prisoners of the Jem'Hadar. 
(After the opening titles.) 
GORAN'AGAR: Are there other Starfleet ships with you? Tell me. 
BASHIR: There are no other ships with us. But if we don't return, Starfleet will begin looking for us. 
GORAN'AGAR: When? 
BASHIR: Soon. 
GORAN'AGAR: You're lying. 
ARAK'TARAL: No other crew. Standard Danube-class runabout. Some modification to the phaser array and shield generators. 
GORAN'AGAR: Why were you in this star system? 
BASHIR: We picked up a magneton pulse. We thought there might be a ship in trouble, so we altered our course to 
GORAN'AGAR: Return to the ship. Put a damping field on our warp engine. Human. Gold uniform indicates specialty in Security or Engineering. Rank, chief petty officer. You are what Starfleet refers to as a noncom. 
O'BRIEN: That's right. 
GORAN'AGAR: You must have a great deal of experience. 
O'BRIEN: I've been around. 
GORAN'AGAR: That makes you a priority target. We will kill you first. Human, rank of lieutenant with a specialty in the sciences. 
BASHIR: Doctor, actually. 
ARAK'TARAL: Science and medical officers are low priority targets. I submit we execute this one and use the other in a tactical exercise. 
GORAN'AGAR: No. Bring them both back to camp. 
ARAK'TARAL: Move. 
[Captain's office]
WORF: We cannot allow him to continue these criminal activities. 
ODO: I am fully aware of Quark's activities and I'm conducting a thorough investigation of his connection with the smuggler. If you'll excuse me, Captain. 
SISKO: Of course. 
(Odo leaves.) 
SISKO: I know Odo may do things a little differently than you're used to, but he really is very good at his job. 
WORF: I'm not questioning his competence. 
SISKO: How many years were you in security, Commander? 
WORF: Seven. 
SISKO: Must be a hard habit to break. 
WORF: I have remained vigilant. 
SISKO: And I do encourage vigilance in my officers. But remember, Odo is chief of security on this station, and you're the strategic operations officer. Your primary duty is to coordinate all Starfleet activity in this sector, not to catch smugglers. 
WORF: Understood. I will not let this matter interfere with my duties. 
SISKO: Very well. Dismissed. 
[Caves]
(Bashir and O'Brien are in one of those cylindrical forcefields) 
BASHIR: Does he look nervous to you? 
O'BRIEN: A bit distracted, yeah. 
BASHIR: And at the runabout, they seemed concerned about being found here. Something's going on. 
O'BRIEN: I'd hate to think what would make the Jem'Hadar jumpy. 
BASHIR: They need a doctor. Someone's injured, or sick. 
O'BRIEN: If that's true, Julian, don't help them. Anything that weakens them increases our chances of getting out of here. 
(Goran'Agar enters and turns off the forcefield.) 
GORAN'AGAR: Come with me. He stays. 
[Laboratory]
(Outside in the daylight, Bashir is taken to a bamboo and palm leaf canopy over a metal grid floor and some pieces of equipment.);
GORAN'AGAR: You will work here. 
BASHIR: Where are the patients? 
GORAN'AGAR: There are no patients. You are here to carry out scientific research for us. If you refuse, I will have to kill you. Do you understand? 
BASHIR: And you need to understand that I'm a Starfleet officer, and I won't do any work for you that might potentially be used against the Federation or any other race for that matter. Now, if that's what you want, you'll have to kill me. 
GORAN'AGAR: Fortunately for you, weapons research is not what I need. There is a drug that all Jem'Hadar must have in order to live. We call it ketracel-white. 
BASHIR: An isogenic enzyme. 
GORAN'AGAR: You know about it? 
BASHIR: I know that the Jem'Hadar have been genetically engineered by the Dominion to be addicted to what you call ketracel-white. And that by controlling the supply of the drug, the Founders maintain control over you. 
GORAN'AGAR: The Vorta. They are the ones who control the drug. They are the ones we came here to escape. 
BASHIR: Escape? You're trying to leave the Dominion? 
GORAN'AGAR: Yes. You disapprove. 
BASHIR: No, I, I'm just surprised. 
GORAN'AGAR: Surprised because a Jem'Hadar soldier might want something more than the life of a slave? You know nothing about the Jem'Hadar except that you fear us. But you will make our final escape from the Dominion possible. We have only enough white to last another five days. 
BASHIR: And you want me to try and synthesise the drug? 
GORAN'AGAR: No. We do not want more of the drug. We want to be free of it. To break the addiction. 
BASHIR: I'm not sure that that's possible. 
GORAN'AGAR: It is possible. I know because I am free of the drug. 
(Goran'Agar pulls down the roll neck of his uniform to reveal no tube going into his neck.) 
BASHIR: No supply tube. I don't understand. Your entire genetic structure was designed to collapse without the ketracel. Why did you stop taking the drug? 
GORAN'AGAR: It was not by choice. Three years ago, I was on a ship that crashed on this world. The rest of the crew died and I was left with only enough white to sustain me for three days. I rationed my supply and managed to stretch out the drug for eight days, and then it was gone, and I was ready to die. But death never came. I lived here for thirty five days without a single drop of White. Being here, on this planet, cured me. 
BASHIR: And that's why you returned here. To cure the rest of your men as well. But it hasn't worked, has it? They still need the drug. 
GORAN'AGAR: We have come to the same place, breathed the same air, eaten the same food. It should have cured them as well. 
BASHIR: That may be over simplifying the situation. There may be many factors 
GORAN'AGAR: I want you to see this. 
[Jungle clearing]
(The four soldiers are lined up, twitching.) 
ARAK'TARAL: Take the pain. Show Goran'Agar we're still Jem'Hadar. 
(Goran'Agar prods one soldier, who winces in pain.) 
GORAN'AGAR: You did not fall. Feel pride in that. As a Federation Doctor, I know you are trained to feel sympathy and compassion for those in pain. These men are suffering now, but it is nothing compared to what will happen if they are not freed from the drug before our supply runs out. 
BASHIR: I can't promise anything. 
GORAN'AGAR: Will you try? 
BASHIR: I'll need Chief O'Brien's help. Yes, I'll try. Now give those men what they need, please. 
GORAN'AGAR: Second. 
(Vials are handed out and slotted into the uniforms. White runs up the tubes to their necks. It reminds me of Blakes 7 mutoid soldiers.) 
GORAN'AGAR: I've told them we have enough white to last twenty seven days. That is a lie. There's only enough to last five days. You have that long, Doctor. After that they will die, but not before they kill me for betraying them and you for not saving them. 
[Wardroom]
DAX: The Klingons have also attacked three more outposts along the Romulan border. In short, they're reasserting themselves all over the quadrant. 
KIRA: You'd think they'd be a little less aggressive after failing to conquer Cardassia. 
WORF: If the invasion was seen as a failure, Gowron would have been assassinated by now. He simply declared victory and returned home. 
SISKO: Now he's looking for his next victory. 
ODO: Bajoran Intelligence believes the Klingons are searching for weaknesses in the star systems along their borders. 
KIRA: And when they find an appropriately weak system, they invade. It's the same old story. The strong survive and the weak perish. 
SISKO: We'll save that particular debate for another time. I want a complete briefing every day about the Klingon situation. Dismissed. 
(Kira, Sisko and Dax leave.) 
WORF: May I speak with you for a moment? 
ODO: I assume this is about Quark. 
WORF: He has made arrangements to acquire a type four Tallonian microscanner. 
ODO: Has he? 
WORF: The type four is primarily used to determine the purity of Tallonian crystals. 
ODO: Which are illegal anywhere but on the Tallonian homeworld. Interesting. I appreciate you bringing me this information, Commander. 
WORF: I expect him to be meeting with the smuggler again this evening. 
ODO: That would seem likely. 
WORF: Then you will arrest him when 
ODO: Thank you, Mister Worf. Rest assured I'll take care of this matter. 
[Laboratory]
(It is evening now. Bashir has rock samples on a table. A guard walks by.) 
BASHIR: How long until that scanner's ready, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: About thirty minutes. I'm having trouble with the transtater interface. Maybe you should take a look, sir. 
(Bashir goes over to O'Brien.) 
O'BRIEN: (sotto) The plasma charge should have an effective range of about fifteen metres. 
BASHIR: (sotto) That's pretty close. 
O'BRIEN: (sotto) Well, it's enough to take care of the guard. Once he's down, I'll get his weapon and we run like hell for the runabout. 
BASHIR: Good work, Chief. Keep this up. You may make a fine officer some day. 
O'BRIEN: Thank you Lieutenant. Coming from you that means a lot to me. 
BASHIR: I know. Carry on. 
GORAN'AGAR: What have you found? 
BASHIR: Well, so far, nothing I've tested matches the molecular structure of the enzyme receptors in your bodies. But I did find something promising in one of the native plants here. Take a look at this. As you can see, there is a high content of chlorophyll in these plants, which you wouldn't expect on a planet orbiting a red giant. 
GORAN'AGAR: When will you have the cure? 
BASHIR: I'm not really sure, yet. 
GORAN'AGAR: (sotto) Three days left, Doctor. 
ARAK'TARAL: What is this? 
O'BRIEN: That is something I put together to enhance the resolution on that scanner. 
(Arak'Taral flips the switch. A burst of energy hits Meso'Clan. Arak'Taral grabs O'Brien by the throat and throws him onto a table. Goran'Agar puts his weapon to Bashir's head.) 
GORAN'AGAR: Stay where you are. Release him. I said release him. Let him go. You know the penalty for disobedience. 
(Arak'Taral stops strangling O'Brien.) 
BASHIR: You have a bruised trachea but there's no permanent damage. 
GORAN'AGAR: Return him to the holding cell. 
(Arak'Taral leads O'Brien away.) 
TEMO'ZUMA: He cannot stand. 
GORAN'AGAR: Heal his wound. 
BASHIR: It missed the femoral artery but the knee joint's been destroyed. I can give you something for the pain, but I'll need a surgical unit to replace this joint. He'll have to stay off this leg until you can get him to a medical facility. 
MESO'CLAN: If I cannot stand, I am useless. 
BASHIR: You are not going to kill him. 
TEMO'ZUMA: This has nothing to do with you, human. 
MESO'CLAN: When I am dead, there'll be more white for the rest of the men. 
GORAN'AGAR: No. Take him back to the ship. 
MESO'CLAN: You know the rule. If the death of one will make the rest stronger, then he dies. 
GORAN'AGAR: We came here to be free of the Vorta. It is time to stop living by their rules. Get back to work. 
[Quark's cafe]
(It is after closing time. Worf breaks into Quark's top floor and watches Quark clearing up. Later, Quark is sitting and stretching and waiting. There is a knock on the main door. Quark lets in Tosh.) 
QUARK: Come in. Do you have it? 
Of course. 
(Quark examines the contents of a small pouch with an eye piece. Worf leaves.) 
[Security office]
WORF: You are supposed to be watching the Ferengi. 
ODO: I don't need you to tell me what I'm supposed to be doing. 
WORF: I saw him inspecting the crystals. You had an opportunity to arrest him. 
ODO: I perform my duties as I see fit. 
WORF: You do not seem to be performing them at all. 
ODO: Frankly, Commander, I'm not interested in your opinion of my job performance. Now I suggest you attend to your own duties and stop interfering in mine. 
[Laboratory]
(Daylight. Bashir is giving Goran'Agar a full scan.) 
BASHIR: Remarkable. Your body is producing the exact amount of ketracel-white you need to survive. But I can't find where it's coming from. There don't appear to be any glands or cell clusters producing the enzyme. Mind you, your entire metabolism defies belief. The growth rate of the Jem'Hadar children is extraordinary. 
GORAN'AGAR: You have seen our children? 
BASHIR: We found a newborn on the station once. He was fully grown in three days. 
GORAN'AGAR: I would have like to have seen a group of humans try to control a Jem'Hadar child. 
BASHIR: We couldn't. All he wanted to do was fight and kill. If it weren't for Odo, I don't know what we would've done. 
GORAN'AGAR: Odo is the Founder on your space station? 
BASHIR: That's right. 
GORAN'AGAR: I have never seen a Founder. 
BASHIR: Never? 
GORAN'AGAR: To us, they are almost a myth. But everyone in the Dominion, even the Vorta, serve the Founders. I have fought against races that believe in mythical beings who guide their destinies and await them after death. They call them gods. The Founders are like gods to the Jem'Hadar, but our gods never talk to us and they don't wait for us after death. They only want us to fight for them and to die for them. 
[Caves]
(Back inside the forcefield) 
BASHIR: He's beginning to question everything he's been taught. Blind obedience to the Founders, killing without remorse and the devaluation of other sentient lifeforms. He's developing his own moral structure. It's incredible. 
O'BRIEN: Or maybe that's what he wants you to believe. Think about it, Julian. What did he say to you? Federation doctors are trained to feel compassion and sympathy. He's manipulating you. He wants you to work hard and stop trying to escape. 
BASHIR: What about saving the life of the wounded Jem'Hadar? I saw the look on their faces. They were shocked at his behaviour. I'm telling you, he's changing. 
O'BRIEN: All right. Let's say you're right and he's turning into a nice guy. What are you getting at? 
BASHIR: I think we should cooperate with him, help him in what he's doing. 
O'BRIEN: What? 
BASHIR: What makes Goran'Agar different from the others? He's not addicted to the drug. Now if we can get the other Jem'Hadar soldiers off the drug, they may go through a similar change. And with the Jem'Hadar soldiers thinking for themselves, the Founders may suddenly find themselves without an army to give orders to. 
O'BRIEN: You're just guessing. You don't know how the other Jem'Hadar will react when they're off the drug. They may go marauding through the galaxy on their own. At least now the Dominion keeps them on a short leash. 
BASHIR: They're not animals. They're people being used as slaves. And this is their one chance at freedom. 
O'BRIEN: And what are they going to do with that freedom? Stop being so naive, Julian, and look at them for what they are. They're killers. That's all they know how to do. That's all they want to do. 
BASHIR: But they have the potential to be so much more. Goran'Agar has shown them that. They just need our help. 
O'BRIEN: Well then they should have asked for our help instead of shooting us down and threatening to kill us. 
BASHIR: But they didn't know why we were coming. They probably thought we were trying to attack. 
O'BRIEN: I can't believe you're making excuses for them. 
BASHIR: I'm trying to make you understand there are larger issues here. We're dealing with a complex situation. 
O'BRIEN: No, it is not complex. It is simple. Those men out there are Dominion soldiers. We help them, we may end up unleashing the Jem'Hadar against the Federation, and that is a risk I am not willing to take. So we do not help them and that's the end of it! 
BASHIR: No, that is not the end of it. I am the senior officer here and I have decided what we're going to do. Now, I need the bio-spectral phase discriminator from the runabout's sensor array. I haven't got the technical skills to remove it, so I'm ordering you to do it. Now is that clear? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
[Runabout Rubicon]
(O'Brien is working in a cavity below the floorplates.) 
ARAK'TARAL: How long will this take? 
O'BRIEN: A few minutes. 
ARAK'TARAL: Your escape plan was flawed. 
O'BRIEN: Obviously. I got caught. 
ARAK'TARAL: Even if you had killed the guard, you never would have reached the runabout. 
O'BRIEN: I guess we'll never know that. 
ARAK'TARAL: I know. 
O'BRIEN: I'm sure you do. 
ARAK'TARAL: You're not like the other human. 
O'BRIEN: We have our differences. 
ARAK'TARAL: You don't like helping us. 
(A little sign lights up in the cavity - transporter power on line.) 
O'BRIEN: No, I don't. 
ARAK'TARAL: Good. I don't like it either. 
O'BRIEN: Well I'm glad we understand each other. 
(O'Brien pulls a cylinder from the cavity.) 
ARAK'TARAL: Slowly. Now put it down. 
(Arak'Taral bends down to check the cylinder and O'Brien jams a power cable into the cylinder's former connection. Bang! Arak'Taral turns round and O'Brien beams out. A weapons shot scorches the bulkhead.) 
[Jungle]
(O'Brien uses his tricorder and runs off.) 
[Laboratory]
(Late evening or night.) 
BASHIR: Nothing. I can find nothing in the atmosphere, the soil, the water, the plant or the animal life that is remotely compatible to your cellular structure or your DNA. Maybe you were exposed to some anomalous conditions four years ago that no longer exist. A magnetic storm, solar radiation, volcanic gases. 
GORAN'AGAR: No. Everything is as it was four years ago. The planet is the same. The conditions are the same. The answer must be here. There is no other explanation for what happened to me. 
BASHIR: Maybe there is an explanation. Maybe nothing happened to you on this planet. Maybe you were never addicted to this drug at all? 
GORAN'AGAR: But I took white all my life. 
BASHIR: But maybe you didn't need it. It's possible that your DNA structure underwent a random mutation that 
ARAK'TARAL: He's escaped. 
GORAN'AGAR: How? 
ARAK'TARAL: Using their ship's transporter. They planned this together. 
GORAN'AGAR: Do you know where O'Brien is? 
BASHIR: No. 
GORAN'AGAR: Deploy the men in a standard 
ARAK'TARAL: He's lying. He's been lying for days. There is no cure here. Even if there was, he wouldn't give it to you. 
GORAN'AGAR: There is a cure. I am the proof. Now, deploy the men in a standard search pattern. Find O'Brien and return him to the holding area alive. 
ARAK'TARAL: Alive? 
GORAN'AGAR: Are you questioning me? 
ARAK'TARAL: I knew you once. Trusted you. Obeyed you without question. But now you're like this human, weak, soft, inferior. If being free of white means becoming like you, I don't want to be cured. 
(Arak'Taral leaves) 
BASHIR: What'll happen to O'Brien? 
GORAN'AGAR: There is nothing we can do for him. My men will no longer obey me. 
BASHIR: You have to find him first and keep him alive until I can find a cure. 
GORAN'AGAR: If I go, there will be no one here to guard you. 
BASHIR: I will not try to escape. I give you my word. 
GORAN'AGAR: I will do what I can. 
[Quark's]
(Another after hours meeting with Tosh.) 
QUARK: I've been saving this for a special occasion. Tonight certainly qualifies. How did you manage to get these out of the Tallonian system? 
TOSH: I have my resources. 
(Quark scans the huge gemstone.) 
QUARK: A hundred percent pure. 
TOSH: Well worth twice the price I'm asking. 
QUARK: I don't know if I'd go that far. 
(Quark puts a bag of latinum on the table. Then Worf walks in on them.) 
WORF: Trafficking in illegal merchandise is a felony under Federation law. 
QUARK: What's he doing here? 
(Worf drops the bag as it morphs into Odo.) 
ODO: A very good question. 
WORF: I was just about to arrest these criminals. 
ODO: I should arrest you for interfering in my investigation. 
TOSH: Will someone tell me what is going on here? 
WORF: Odo, why did you not tell me what you were doing? 
ODO: I don't report to you, Commander. And I don't spread the word when I'm conducting an undercover investigation. I also thought that your surveillance would make the setup more convincing. I'm not interested in this man. He was supposed to complete the transaction and take the latinum back to his ship, so that I could infiltrate the entire Markalian smuggling operation. Now I suppose I'll have to settle for the middleman. 
QUARK: If you gentlemen are finished with this little fiasco, I'd like to tidy up. 
ODO: Quark. 
(Quark gives Odo gem stone and walks away.) 
ODO: On your feet. Let's go. 
[Jungle clearing]
(O'Brien does something clever with his tricorder by a tree then covers it with leaves and hides from the search party.) 
TEMO'ZUMA: I've lost his signal. 
ARAK'TARAL: Spread out. 
(One kills the tricorder and get thumped by a branch which flies out at him.) 
[Laboratory]
(Bashir is doing an experiment when O'Brien bursts in) 
BASHIR: Chief! 
O'BRIEN: Where's the guard? 
BASHIR: Everyone's out looking for you. 
O'BRIEN: Good. Anything else around we can use as a weapon? No? Let's get moving. It's only three hundred metres to the runabout, but those guys move fast. 
BASHIR: Chief, I'm not going. 
O'BRIEN: What the hell do you mean, you're not going? 
BASHIR: I'm onto something here, Chief. With a little more time, I think 
O'BRIEN: I don't care what you think. This is our one chance to get out of here and we've got to take it. 
BASHIR: It's also our one chance to break their addiction. 
O'BRIEN: Julian, even if you find a cure, they're going to kill you anyway. 
BASHIR: That's not true, Goran'Agar 
O'BRIEN: Forget about him. What about all the others? They're still a bunch of bloodthirsty 
BASHIR: Look, we haven't got enough time to argue about this. If you want to go, go. 
O'BRIEN: All right. I will. But you're coming with me. 
(O'Brien destroys the equipment.) 
O'BRIEN: There. You can bring me up on charges when we get back, but there's nothing to keep you here now. So let's get going. 
(Goran'Agar shimmers in and knocks O'Brien down.) 
GORAN'AGAR: You did this? 
O'BRIEN: Yes, I did. 
GORAN'AGAR: Move. Both of you. 
BASHIR: This won't 
GORAN'AGAR: No discussion. Move. 
[Jungle ]
BASHIR: There still might be a way. If I had another sample of your blood. 
GORAN'AGAR: There is no more time. The supply of white will run out tomorrow. 
(They arrive at the runabout. Arak'Taral has been searching it.) 
ARAK'TARAL: You caught him. I shouldn't have doubted you. Should we kill them ourselves or let the others? 
GORAN'AGAR: I will do the killing. 
(He shoots Arak'Taral.) 
GORAN'AGAR: Take your ship and go. 
BASHIR: Goran'Agar, if you stay here, they'll kill you. 
GORAN'AGAR: Unless I kill them first. It would be better for them to die quickly in battle, than slowly as the drug runs out. 
BASHIR: You don't have to do this. Even if we can't save their lives, there's no need to sacrifice yourself. 
GORAN'AGAR: You are a soldier? 
O'BRIEN: I have been. 
GORAN'AGAR: Then you explain. 
(Goran'Agar shimmers away) 
O'BRIEN: He's their commander. They trusted him. He can't leave them. Julian. 
[Captain's office]
(Sisko is working on his alien clock.) 
SISKO: Come in. 
WORF: Captain, there is some information I would like to add to Security Chief Odo's last report. He did not feel it was necessary to include the details of my involvement, but I think you should know that I hindered his investigation. 
SISKO: Yes, I heard about what happened. Please, sit. Word gets around in a place like this. It's one of the things you have to get used to. 
WORF: One of many things, it seems. 
SISKO: Starfleet officers often have trouble learning the unofficial rules of the station. There's no manual to study. You have to learn things as you go. A little different than life on a starship. 
WORF: When I served on the Enterprise, I always knew who were my allies and who were my enemies. 
SISKO: Let's just say DS Nine has more shades of grey. And Quark definitely is a shade of grey. He has his own set of rules and he follows them diligently. Once you understand them, you understand Quark. I'd say that's true for everyone here. You'll fit in, Commander. Just give it time. 
[Runabout Rubicon]
(WHOOSH! Back through the wormhole) 
KIRA [OC]: Kira to Rubicon. Docking platform two is open. Welcome back, gentlemen. 
O'BRIEN: Thanks, Major. You can bring me up on charges, you know. 
BASHIR: No, that's not really my style. 
O'BRIEN: I wish things could have been different, Julian. 
BASHIR: So do I. 
O'BRIEN: And I'm sorry I had to destroy your work. 
BASHIR: You didn't have to, Chief. You had a choice and you chose to disobey orders, override my judgment, and condemn those men to death. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, I did, because I thought it was the only way to save your life. Whatever else you may think of who I am and what I did, at least try to understand that. 
BASHIR: Tonight's supposed to be our weekly dart game. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. I don't feel much like playing either. 
BASHIR: Maybe in a few days. 

