Episode Number: 557
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Once More Unto The Breach
Once More Unto The Breach
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 9 Nov, 1998
[Quark's]
O'BRIEN: Come on. Santa Anna didn't care about the rules of war. If he'd executed Davy Crockett at the Alamo he would have considered it a point of pride. 
BASHIR: All right. Put it this way. In eighteen thirty six Davy Crockett was what, forty nine? Quite old for the standards of the time. His days as an Indian fighter were well behind him. He was just an ex-Congressman, all reputation. Now this is not a man who was about to fight till his last breath, Miles. The situation was hopeless, he was out of ammunition, the Mexican army was swarming the Alamo's battlements. He would have surrendered. It's as logical as that. Simple. 
O'BRIEN: I'm not saying it couldn't have happened. I'm just saying there's no proof. 
WORF: You are both wrong. The only real question is whether you believe in the legend of Davy Crockett or not. If you do, then there should be no doubt in your mind that he died the death of a hero. If you do not believe in the legend, then he was just a man and it does not matter how he died. 
(Worf leaves.) 
BASHIR: Well, I guess that settles that. 
O'BRIEN: I guess so. 
[Worf's quarters]
WORF: Enter. Kor? 
KOR: Nuq'nuh, Worf. It's good to see you, my friend. 
WORF: I welcome you to my home. May I offer you some refreshment? 
KOR: I would be honoured to share a bottle of bloodwine with the Son of Mogh. I heard the news about Jadzia. 
WORF: She died a warrior. 
KOR: I expected nothing less. (Worf hands him a goblet) To absent comrades. Twenty three oh nine. Very good. 
WORF: Sit. 
KOR: The war goes well for you, Worf? A long list of victories to your credit, I trust? 
WORF: I have been fortunate. 
KOR: The way of the warrior is not a humble path. Show some pride in your accomplishments! You've earned it. 
WORF: I will try. And does the war go well for you, Kor? 
KOR: No, Worf. It does not go well for me. It seems my services are not required in the present conflict. 
WORF: But you are Kor, a Dahar Master, the man who held the Korma Pass against T'nag. Your reputation alone should have assured you a command. 
KOR: I also have a reputation for a certain ruthless quality toward those who would stand in my way. Mind you, it is not entirely undeserved. In truth, I rather enjoy being feared by my fellow officers. However, there's a price to be paid for such singled-minded devotion to one's ambition. I made enemies. Perhaps more than were necessary. I have no influence left in the Empire. Even as our entire race grapples with the Dominion there's no place for an old man with too many enemies and not enough friends. That's why I've come here tonight. It is not easy for me to beg you for help, but I have nowhere else to turn. Help me fight again, Worf. Help me end my life as I've lived it. As a warrior. 
[Klingon Wardroom]
(Martok's elderly aide is with him.) 
MARTOK: How many more reports does the High Council require? 
DAROK: As many as last time. And Starfleet is still waiting for your signature on these repair requests. 
MARTOK: There will come a day, Darok, when your services as my aide may no longer be required. 
DAROK: I look forward to that day with great anticipation. Until then 
(Worf enters.) 
MARTOK: Ah, Worf, good to see you. Thank you, Darok. 
(Darok leaves.) 
MARTOK: It's a pity Captain Sisko frowns on summary executions. What can I do for you? 
WORF: Kor, the Dahar Master, came to see me last night. He has been unable to find a command and I 
MARTOK: Tell me you're not going to ask me to give that man a ship! 
WORF: Well, I had hoped that 
MARTOK: Then your hopes are in vain. That man is not welcome in my house and I will certainly not have him commanding a ship in my fleet. 
WORF: General, Kor is a friend and I have already 
MARTOK: Not another word! Do you hear? Not a word! Now get out of here before I forget we are brothers. 
[Captain's office]
MARTOK: I plan to attack the Trelka Five starbase, then push deeper into Cardassian territory. I'll hit the Manora shipyards, the Jem'Hadar breeding facility on Sheva Two, the supply depots in the Borias Cluster. 
SISKO: It would take half the Ninth Fleet just to destroy Trelka Five. 
MARTOK: I don't intend to destroy the base, just damage it. Throw them off balance and then move on to the next target. Imagine the chaos we'll cause once we're in behind their lines. 
SISKO: A cavalry raid. Ancient Earth soldiers mounted on horseback. They had the speed to charge behind enemy lines to stir up trouble, and the mobility to keep from being caught. How many ships will you take? 
MARTOK: Five birds of prey. Battle cruisers are too slow, too unwieldy for a mission like this. 
SISKO: Do you want to take the Defiant? 
MARTOK: Perhaps the Defiant should remain here, just in case the Jem'Hadar try their own cavalry raid. But it may be prudent for the Defiant and a dozen or so other starships to be waiting for us when we return. 
SISKO: You mean you might be bringing company back with you? 
MARTOK: I'm sure you'll be ready to welcome them. 
SISKO: With phasers charged. 
[Klingon Bridge]
(A female officer is giving her updates to Martok and Darok.) 
KOLANA: Our disruptor targeting sensors need to be replaced as well as our guidance system relays. 
MARTOK: Make a note of that for Chief O'Brien. He should give the Ch'Tang first priority. (Worf approaches) So, if you have something to ask me do it now before Darok buries me under more paperwork. 
WORF: I wish to speak with you about Kor. Now I know that you have strong feelings about this 
MARTOK: Clear the bridge! 
(Worf and Martok are left alone.) 
MARTOK: I did not expect to hear anything further on this subject from you. 
WORF: And I did not expect to be forbidden to speak with you on any subject. Have I become a shuVak to be ordered about like Darok? 
MARTOK: No, of course not. Very well. Talk and be done with it. 
WORF: Kor came to see me, asking my help as a friend. He is an old man with no family and no influence left in the Empire. He asked nothing except for the chance to fight and die as a Klingon warrior. I told him I would speak with you about finding him a command in the fleet. 
MARTOK: I would not give that man the gnawed bones of my last meal, much less command of a ship. 
WORF: But why? There is no blood feud between our Houses, and Kor has said he has not even met you. 
MARTOK: You can wound a man without ever seeing his face. When I was a boy, my family still lived in the lowlands of Ketha Province. We had very little, but it didn't matter. We were a family of warriors. Fifteen generations had served as soldiers of the Empire, but my father had higher hopes for me. He wanted his son to become an officer. It took a great deal of effort, but eventually he found someone willing to sponsor me. I passed my entrance exam on my first attempt and all that remained was final approval by the oversight council. A simple formality. My application was rejected by one member of that council. Kor. 
WORF: Why? 
MARTOK: Why? Kor's family descends from the Imperial Court itself. Kor is of the blood, born to rule by the divine will of Kahless! And what was I? A boy from the Ketha lowlands. He could not bear the thought of someone like me joining the elite officer ranks. And so, to my father's embarrassment and my everlasting shame, my application was denied. And with the mark of Kor on my record I could not join even as a common soldier. I spent five years as a civilian labourer aboard General ShiVang's flagship. Then, as fortune would have it, the Romulans made a foolhardy attempt to board our ship. I earned a battlefield commission. Unfortunately, my father did not live to see that glorious day. And if Kor had had his way, I would still be a civilian on that ship, cleaning the officers' mess. 
WORF: I understand. But I must tell you that using my own authority, I appointed Kor an officer in the Ninth Fleet. 
MARTOK: Made him an officer, just like that. That's the difference between his name and mine. His opens doors, mine closes them. 
WORF: I did not anticipate that 
MARTOK: It's done. Your apology is not sought. But know this, Worf. Kor is your responsibility. I want nothing to do with him. 
[Replimat]
KOR: Do you remember breaking into the Duke's harem on Renavi? 
EZRI: How could I forget that? That is one of Curzon's favourite memories. Hi. 
WORF: Hello. 
KOR: Come and join us, my friend. 
EZRI: I am on duty. I'll see you later. It's good to see you again, Kor. 
(Ezri leaves.) 
KOR: Still the same old Dax, and yet not. 
WORF: General Martok will not give you a command. 
KOR: Kesh! 
WORF: He says that you struck his name from an officers list because his family comes from the Ketha lowlands. 
KOR: Did I? I don't recall. Of course, there were so many officer lists. I suppose it's possible. 
WORF: It is an unworthy reason to bar a man from serving the Empire. 
KOR: Worf, you've been living among this democratic rabble for too long. I know your bloodline. We both come from noble Houses. Among our people that still counts for something. If Martok is a true Klingon, he should appreciate that. 
WORF: He does not. 
KOR: Did he revoke my commission? 
WORF: No. You will serve aboard the Ch'Tang as Third Officer. 
KOR: Third? Oh, well, no matter. I've overcome greater obstacles. Thank you, Worf. You're a true friend. 
WORF: You will report aboard at oh seven hundred. And stay out of Martok's way. 
KOR: He will not even know I am there. Worf. What was the name of the ship? 
WORF: The Ch'Tang. 
KOR: Ch'Tang! Of course. I'll see you there. 
[Klingon Bridge]
KOLANA: All decks report ready. Defence systems online. Engine room standing by. Transporter room reports that our last crewmembers have beamed aboard. 
MARTOK: Very well. Signal the squadron. Prepare to get underway. Stand by to cloak. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
MARTOK: Helm, set course three two five, mark zero zero three. Full impulse till we clear the outer marker, then go to 
(Everyone is staring at) 
KOR: Third Officer Kor reporting for duty. 
SYNON: (Helmswoman) The Dahar Master. 
WORF: Take your station. 
MARTOK: Return to your duties or I'll find a crew that can! Helmsman! I gave you an order. 
SYNON: Chah Veh! 
(The cavalry troop leaves DS9.) 
DAROK: Kor, here, on our ship. 
MARTOK: Don't you have something to do? 
DAROK: No. 
MARTOK: Then find something. 
DAROK: (to Kor) It's an honour to have you aboard. 
KOR: Thank you very much. 
KOLANA: Welcome, Dahar Master. 
[Quark's]
KIRA: So what did Kor say when he met you? 
EZRI: The usual. I have the same conversation over and over again. Everyone's shocked at first, then they start scanning my face for signs of the person they knew as Dax. It can't be. Is it really you? Oh, I do see a little Jadzia in the eyes, a little Curzon in the smile. 
KIRA: Isn't there a period of adjustment that joined Trills have to go through where people are comparing them to previous hosts? I'm sure it'll pass. 
EZRI: You're right. The last five Dax hosts went through this. That wasn't bad. You'd make a pretty good counsellor. You want to trade jobs? 
KIRA: Oh, yeah, people would love bringing their problems to me. You dreamed about what? You're crazy. Now get out of my office. Next patient! 
EZRI: Funny you should mention dreams. Ever since my conversation with Kor, I've had the most intense dreams about him. 
KIRA: Like what? 
EZRI: Being on a Klingon bridge together, going off into battle, drinking bloodwine, which still makes me gag by the way, singing songs. A part of me wants to be out there with him now. I hope he's all right. I mean, I know I'm sort of contradicting what I just said about wanting to set myself apart from my previous hosts, but the memories I have of being with him are so vivid, I can't bear the thought of losing him. I'd give almost anything for the chance to be together one more time. The two of us, side by side, just like it used to be. 
(Quark has their drinks, and has been listening.) 
KIRA: Do you need something? 
QUARK: No. Nothing. 
(Quark goes back to the bar.) 
EZRI: So, what's your professional opinion? 
KIRA: You're crazy. 
EZRI: Next patient! 
ODO: What's the matter with you? Someone forget to leave a tip? 
QUARK: It's Ezri. She, she, I can't even say it. 
ODO: Try. 
QUARK: She wants to get back together with Worf. 
[Klingon mess hall]
MARTOK: And before the Cardassians realized we were even there, we destroyed the entire camp and the relay station! 
KOLANA: To General Martok, victor of Felton Prime! 
ALL: Qapla'! 
(Kor enters. All stand.) 
KOLANA: Let me have the honour to welcome the Dahar Master to the humble mess hall of the Ch'Tang. 
KOR: Sit, sit. You do me too much honour. On this voyage I am but the Third Officer. I expect no special treatment. 
WORF: Have you settled on an attack plan for the starbase on Trelka Five? 
MARTOK: I'm going to send the Malpara and Ning'tao in ahead of the rest of the squadron. They'll make a single strafing run on the base and then head out of the system. When the enemy sends out their repair crews to assess the damage, then the rest of the squadron will decloak. With any luck, we'll catch them not only unprepared but with their entire damage control effort underway. 
KOR: Excellent! An excellent plan, General. 
MARTOK: I'm glad you approve. 
KOR: Of course. It's the same tactic Kang and I used against the Federation in the battle of Caleb Four. 
KOLANA: You were at Caleb Four? 
DAROK: Of course he was! Forgive the ignorance of these children. 
KOR: I was a young officer once. I know how irrelevant the past can seem. 
KOLANA: We would be honoured if you would tell us about Caleb Four. 
DAROK: Tell the tale. 
SYNON: Yes, tell us! 
KOR: Well, there's not much to tell really. The battle was over almost before the Federation knew it had begun. I commanded the first division from the Klothos, one of the old D Five cruisers. Kang commanded the second division. Now, you must remember that in those days, the cloaking device was a new piece of technology. There were only a handful of engineers in the Imperial Fleet who knew how to operate them. Before we left Chronos, I spent three days in the engine room taking the device apart with my bare hands and then putting it back together again. Now this would come in handy later in the battle, as you'll see. 
[Klingon ready room]
WORF: It is not the fault of the crew. They are not used to serving with a legendary figure like Kor. 
KOLANA [OC]: Bridge to General Martok. 
MARTOK: Yes? 
KOLANA [OC}: We are approaching Trelka Five. 
MARTOK: Set defence condition one. 
KOLANA [OC]: Defence Condition One. All hands to battle stations. Repeat, all hands to battle stations. 
[Corridor]
KOR: I'm supposed to be somewhere. 
SYNON: Dahar Master. 
KOR: Where are you going, Lieutenant? 
SYNON: To the bridge. We're approaching Trelka Five. 
KOR: The bridge! 
SYNON: Are you all right? 
KOR: Of course. What are you waiting for? Report to your station! 
SYNON: Chah Veh! 
KOR: Concentrate. 
[Klingon Bridge]
(The strafing run is underway.) 
KOLANA: Their shields are down to sixty five percent. Three Cardassian cruisers are in spacedock, orbiting the far side of the planet. Two of them are getting underway. The Malpara and the Ning'tao have completed their attack. 
(A Cardassian blows one of them out of the sky.) 
KOLANA: The Malpara is gone. No survivors. Ning'tao is heading out of the system. The Cardassians are pursuing. 
MARTOK: Leaving their base unprotected. Helm, take us in. Bring us to a hover three hundred metres above the base. Stand by to decloak on my command. 
SYNON: Holding at three hundred metres. 
MARTOK: Scan the base. 
KOLANA: They've dispatched damage control teams. Two defence batteries are out and they've just dropped their primary shield grid. 
MARTOK: Decloak the ship and open fire. 
KOLANA: Shields are down to eighty five percent! 
WORF: Reroute emergency power to the secondary shield emitters. 
MARTOK: Fire torpedoes! Helm, lay in an escape course. 
SYNON: Aye, sir! 
(Big BOOM on the bridge. Martok and Worf are out cold. Up steps the third officer.) 
KOR: Continue firing! Target their primary reactors! 
KOLANA: Chah Veh! 
KOR: And bring us around for another pass! 
SYNON: Coming about! 
MARTOK: No, only one pass. Leave the system! 
KOR: Do not worry, my friend. All is well. 
MARTOK: You old fool. 
KOLANA: The Orantho reports their captain and first officer are dead. They have a hull breach on their port quarter. 
KOR: Instruct them to continue firing, and open a channel to Kang. 
KOLANA: To Kang? 
KOR: Tell him we've succeeded, and that the Federation outpost on Caleb Four will be taken within an hour! 
KOLANA: Sir, Kang has been dead for years. 
KOR: Prepare a boarding party. We're going to take the base. 
SYNON: But sir, they have a garrison of ten thousand! 
MARTOK: By the hand of Kahless, get us out of here! 
KOR: Victory is ours. The Federation will rue the day they dared to challenge the might of the Klingon Empire. We will take Caleb Four and raise our banner over the smoking ruins of their outpost. 
(Martok throws his knife at Kor. Worf catches it and knocks Kor down.) 
WORF: Escape course. Now! 
MARTOK: Engage cloaks. 
KOLANA: Orantho and Slivin have cloaked. No pursuit from Trelka Five. 
MARTOK: No time to waste. Proceed, proceed to the rendezvous then on to the Manora shipyards. Warp seven. 
WORF: Medical team to the bridge. 
MARTOK: Worf, get that man out of here. 
[Quark's]
EZRI: Hi. I think I'm in the mood for 
QUARK: Wait. I have something to say. Now, you may think this is none of my business, but someone has to speak up and I've decided that someone is me. So here it is. I'll just say it. 
EZRI: Okay. 
QUARK: You're making a mistake by pursuing another relationship with Worf. 
EZRI: Excuse me? 
QUARK: You heard me. I know how Jadzia felt about Worf, but that was her life, not yours. You're Ezri Dax. You need to give yourself a chance to explore other relationships. You're young and beautiful and full of life. Why go after a man who's only a memory to you? I've had my problems with Worf, I'll admit that, but this is not about me or my feelings. This is about you. Worf has done nothing and I mean nothing to deserve you. Shouldn't you try and find someone who's willing to win your heart, not just inherit it? You deserve better. There. I've said my piece. 
EZRI: Can I say something now? I'm not interested in having another relationship with Worf. I care about him and I probably always will, but he's moved on with his life and so have I. 
QUARK: Oh. Well, good. 
EZRI: And I'd also like to say that what you just did was one of the kindest, dearest and for you, one of the most embarrassing things that I have ever heard. (kisses him) You're a real sweetheart. Can I order now? A Moscow mule. 
QUARK: Coming right up. 
(Quark goes to Jake at the other end of the bar.) 
QUARK: Did you hear that? She called me sweetheart. 
JAKE: Yeah. So? 
QUARK: She loves me. 
JAKE: What? 
QUARK: Sweetheart. 
JAKE: You're certifiable, you do realise that? 
QUARK: She loves me. 
[Klingon mess hall]
(Kor is at the table, alone, eating soup.) 
MARTOK: And find out what is wrong with the Ning'tao. I know Captain Lurkan is young, but he must realise the importance (spots Kor) the importance of keeping formation. I've been thinking about our next objective. Perhaps we should go after a bigger target, something more threatening to our forces. Now, what about the base on Caleb Four? 
DAROK: If you'll excuse me, I have duties to attend to. 
MARTOK: Your duties are right here. Someone was just telling me about the defences on Caleb Four. Who was that? 
SYNON: I believe it was our Third Officer, General. 
MARTOK: That's right. Third officer! Tell us about Caleb Four. Is it manned by Jem'Hadar or Cardassian troops? 
KOLANA: I thought it was a Federation outpost. 
MARTOK: But how can that be? The Federation is our ally. Surely Kor is aware of that. 
SYNON: Perhaps he's confused. 
MARTOK: Confused? The Dahar Master? Surely not. We must be the ones who are confused. Enlighten us. Who mans the base on Caleb Four? Dominion or Federation? 
KOLANA: I think he's forgotten. 
SYNON: I think he's asleep. 
MARTOK: Stop it, both of you. Don't you have any respect for one of the greatest heroes of the Empire? He's thinking it over. Give him time. The last son of the House of Kor should not be rushed. 
KOLANA: How long should we wait? 
SYNON: Perhaps we should ask Kang. 
(Kor stands up to leave.) 
MARTOK: Well, say something, old man. Or have you lost your tongue as well as your mind? 
KOR: Savour the fruit of life, my young friends. It has a sweet taste when it 'is fresh from the vine. But don't live too long. The taste turns bitter after a time. 
[Klingon ready room]
WORF: The new personnel roster. 
MARTOK: You've removed Kor from active duty. 
WORF: I saw no other choice. 
MARTOK: Still, you're his friend. It must have been difficult for you. 
WORF: A friend would not have put him in that position in the first place. 
MARTOK: I've hated his name for almost thirty years. I've dreamt of the moment when I would finally see him stripped of his rank and title, when he would suddenly find himself without a friend in the world, without the power of his birthright. Well, I've had that moment now. And I took no joy from it. Have you thought about what will become of him when we return to Deep Space Nine? 
WORF: I plan to speak with Chancellor Gowron to try and find Kor some assignment on the homeworld. 
MARTOK: I'll have a word with Gowron as well. 
KOLANA [OC]: Bridge to General Martok. 
MARTOK: Yes? 
KOLANA [OC]: Pardon the interruption, sir. Our sensors have detected a large body of enemy ships. 
MARTOK: On my way. 
[Klingon Bridge]
MARTOK: Where are they? 
KOLANA: Their warp signatures are bearing directly astern. They're Jem'Hadar fighters and they appear to be pursuing us. 
MARTOK: How can that be? 
WORF: The lead ship is using some kind of long range tachyon scanner to penetrate our cloaks. 
SYNON: Does the Dominion possess such a device? 
MARTOK: They do now. 
WORF: How many ships? 
KOLANA: I've identified ten vessels so far, and they're gaining on us. 
WORF: How long before we are within their weapons range? 
KOLANA: Two hours, twelve minutes. 
MARTOK: Helm, have you located the Defiant? 
SYNON: Yes, sir. They're waiting for us in the Kalandra sector, with seven Federation starships. It will take us three hours, forty five minutes to reach them. 
WORF: If the Jem'Hadar could be forced to drop out of warp for only ten minutes, they would not have time to catch up with us before we rendezvous with the Defiant. 
MARTOK: A fine theory, but how do we execute it? 
WORF: We could disrupt their warp fields with an inverse graviton burst. It would force them to drop to impulse until the gravitons dissipated. 
KOLANA: We would need to generate a massive burst to disrupt the warp fields of a fleet that size. 
WORF: A single bird of prey could do it by diverting warp power to the main deflector. 
MARTOK: How long would that delay them? 
KOLANA: They could reinitialise their warp cores in less than two minutes. 
WORF: If I could engage them in battle while they're still at impulse, that would delay them even longer. I know I could do it. 
MARTOK: What do you mean, you could do it? 
WORF: The Orantho's Captain and First Officer are dead, and the Slivin's deflector is damaged. It cannot generate a graviton burst. And the Ning'tao's Captain is too young and inexperienced. I am the logical choice. 
MARTOK: But Worf, this means that you'd be sacrificing the entire crew of the Ning'tao. 
WORF: I have thought about that. We could beam most of the crew over before I take command. I would only need six volunteers. 
MARTOK: Signal the Ning'tao. Tell them to prepare for a change in command. 
[Kor's quarters]
KOR: Yes? 
(Darok enters with a tray.) 
KOR: I am not hungry. 
DAROK: The food is for me. I haven't eaten in hours. Men of our generation never stood on ceremony. We ate when we were hungry, we fought when we were angered. Oh, I miss the simplicity of those days. 
KOR: I miss a great deal about those days. 
DAROK: The warriors on this ship, they don't know what they've missed. But such is the way with children. They often let the promise of the future obscure the glories of the past. 
KOR: Is there a point to this nostalgic indulgence? 
DAROK: Only that they are children. Even Martok who, for all his flaws, is a great man, even Martok is but a child compared to you or me. They are quick to judge and slow to forgive. They still have much to learn. We are being pursued by a Jem'Hadar fleet. Worf believes he can stop them with a single ship. 
KOR: How? 
(Darok hands him a PADD.) 
DAROK: It's a good plan, but it has one flaw. It depends entirely on Worf successfully engaging the whole enemy fleet, if only for a short time. 
KOR: It can be done. The key is to confuse their sensors in the opening moments with a spread of torpedoes. 
DAROK: Perhaps. But it would take a man with three times his experience to accomplish such a feat. And such a man would have to be certain of his abilities. 
KOR: Such a man would not take the job unless he were certain. 
DAROK: It has been an honour serving with you, Kor, son of Rynar. 
[Klingon Corridor]
KOR: Worf! Leaving for the Ning'tao, I take it? 
WORF: Yes. 
KOR: I wanted to wish you well. I look forward to seeing you at the gates to Sto'Vo'Kor. 
WORF: As do I. 
KOR: Do you have any message you want me to convey to Jadzia? 
(Kor hypo's Worf.) 
KOR: When I reach the halls of the hallowed dead, I will find your beloved and remind her that her husband is a noble warrior, and that he still loves no one but her. Goodbye, my friend. Live well. 
(Kor steps into the tiny transporter alcove.) 
KOR: Long live the Empire! 
[Klingon Bridge]
(A bird of prey reverses course. Darok brings a bottle wine to Martok.) 
MARTOK: On the bridge? 
DAROK: If they succeed, you can drink to their courage, and if they fail, you can still drink to their courage. 
KOLANA: The Ning'tao is closing on the enemy. She's initiated the graviton burst. Their warp fields are destabilising, They're dropping to impulse. 
MARTOK: By Kahless's hand, how many? 
KOLANA: All of them. The Ning'tao has dropped out of warp. She's engaging the enemy. 
MARTOK: Die well, Worf. 
WORF: Today was not my day to die. 
MARTOK: Worf! But then who? Kor! 
WORF: He surprised me outside the transporter room with a hypospray. 
MARTOK: I hope that old fool understands what he's doing. How goes the battle? 
KOLANA: We're approaching the limit of our sensor range, but it appears that the enemy formation has collapsed. The Ning'tao is manoeuvring rapidly. She's taking heavy fire from the Jem'Hadar. I've lost contact. 
MARTOK: One ship against ten. It doesn't seem possible. 
WORF: He will succeed. He is Kor, the Dahar Master. 
(A little later.) 
KOLANA: He's done it. The Jem'Hadar are out of time. They can no longer overtake us before we reach the Defiant. 
MARTOK: How? How did that pompous old man hold off an entire Jem'Hadar fleet with only one ship? 
WORF: Does it matter? 
MARTOK: Darok, give me that bottle. 
(Martok knocks off the cork with his knife.) 
MARTOK: To Kor. A Dahar Master and noble warrior to the end. 
DAROK: (sings) Mi' qul qar'a, 'ej Do' QI'la'. 
KOLANA: QI'do' Sum, garI' do' QI'la. 
ALL except Martok: Sutem pa' rI' tlho' Mara' 'e' qor. rI'qa' rI'qa' rI'qa' DaSo' pa gareh QI' ro'qa' ro'qa' ro'qa' ro'qa. 

