Episode Number: 531
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - You Are Cordially Invited
You Are Cordially Invited
Stardate: 51247.5
Original Airdate: 10 Nov, 1997
Captain's personal log, stardate 51247.5. It's been a week since our return to Deep Space Nine, but the mood of celebration continues. We're still at war, and the station's been designated Headquarters for the Ninth Fleet. That, plus our strategic position guarding the wormhole, makes DS Nine one of the most tempting targets in the entire quadrant. But for now at least, the war seems very far away. 
[Ops]
(Sisko has just been watching the busy Promenade from the upper level. Morn kissed a woman, and a crewwoman smiled up at Sisko.) 
SISKO: Morning. Good morning. Morning, Major. 
KIRA: Good morning, Captain. 
SISKO: Do you know how much I missed hearing you say that. 
KIRA: Do you know how much I hated saying, Good morning, Dukat. 
SISKO: I can imagine. What's on the agenda? 
KIRA: USS Potemkin has completed her repairs and is rejoining the fleet later today. Exeter, Sutherland and Akagi have submitted resupply requests, and there are about a thousand messages from Starfleet Command awaiting your eyes only attention. 
SISKO: Anything else? 
KIRA: General Martok is waiting in your office. 
SISKO: Ah. I'll start with the General. 
KIRA: Thought you would. 
SISKO: Have I mentioned that it's good to be home? 
KIRA: Once or twice. 
[Captain's office]
MARTOK: You knew about this, didn't you? 
SISKO: I had a pretty good idea. 
MARTOK: And you did nothing to stop it? 
SISKO: No. In fact, I recommended you for the position myself. Allow me to offer my congratulations to the new Supreme Commander of the Ninth Fleet. 
MARTOK: Do you have any idea how much paperwork a Supreme Commander has to do? 
SISKO: You're welcome. May I arrange quarters for you on the station? 
MARTOK: No, I'll keep my flag aboard the Rotarran. It may be cramped, but at least I'll feel like I'm still in the war. By the way, I'd like Worf to continue functioning as my principal Intelligence Officer. 
SISKO: I don't see any problem with that. He's the only officer I know who can never get enough work. 
MARTOK: At least if he's busy he'll stop going on about this wedding of his. There were times aboard the Rotarran he nearly drove me mad. Until his son arrived, it was all he could talk about. Then Alexander became all he could talk about. The man is nothing if not single-minded. 
SISKO: I haven't met Worf's son yet. What's he like? 
MARTOK: He's a fine boy. Dedicated, eager. He has the heart of his father, but he's not the best soldier I've ever seen. 
[Quark's]
ALEXANDER: But when he ordered me to bring the system back online I thought he was still talking about the hydrostatic system, so 
DAX: You didn't engage the pumps while the check valves were open? 
WORF: He did. 
ALEXANDER: I flooded the entire deck with superheated hydraulic fluid. It took me three days to clean it up, but I swear it still smells like burnt dog hair in there. 
DAX: Remind me to keep you away from the Defiant. You're a menace. 
ALEXANDER: The Rotarran's crew actually thinks of me as a good luck charm. You know, the more mistakes I make, the safer they feel. I hope the Ya'Vang's crew feels the same way. 
WORF: The Ya'Vang? 
ALEXANDER: I got new orders this morning. The battle cruiser Ya'Vang took heavy losses in their last engagement so most of the Rotarran's crew are being transferred there at the end of the week, including me. More bloodwine? 
DAX: Why not? 
WORF: No, not for me. 
(Alexander leaves the table with Dax's mug.) 
QUARK: Handsome young man. He must get his looks from his mother's side. 
WORF: What do you want? 
QUARK: Have you had a chance to reconsider my offer? 
WORF: We are not getting married in this bar. The ceremony will take place on the Klingon homeworld after the war. 
DAX: Worf, let's do it here. This week, before Alexander leaves. 
QUARK: Perfect. I'll handle all the arrangements. 
WORF: Wait. I thought we had agreed. 
DAX: We did, but I would hate for Alexander to miss his father's wedding. It would mean so much to him, and besides, it may be a long time before you see him again. 
(Alexander returns with the drinks.) 
ALEXANDER: What's going on? 
WORF: Our wedding plans have changed. We are getting married here on Deep Space Nine. And I want you to be my Tawi'Yan. 
DAX: Sword-bearer. It's sort of like a best man. 
ALEXANDER: Me? Really? Oh, that's great! 
(He throws out his arms and hits a waiter's tray which crashes onto a table.) 
QUARK: I'll put that on your tab. 
[Turbolift]
DAX: it doesn't leave much time to make all the arrangements, but fortunately there isn't that much left to do. Worf's been planning the ceremony for the last three months. He has everything figured out, right down to the colour of my shoes. 
KIRA: No offence, Jadzia, but it seems like this wedding is all about what Worf wants. Habitat ring, section fifty one gamma. What about you? 
DAX: A traditional Klingon wedding with all the trimmings is something Worf's been thinking about since he was a boy. It probably has something to do with being raised by human parents. In any case, when it comes to Klingon tradition, Worf is very sentimental. 
KIRA: Worf? 
DAX: All men are sentimental. They just cover it up with scowls and clenched jaws. There are times when Worf literally gets misty-eyed talking about Klingon rituals. 
[Corridor]
KIRA: So that's why you're letting him make the plans for the wedding? 
DAX: Mostly, but the truth is, I've gone through five Trill ceremonies three as a bride, two as a groom, and I'm a little bored with it. 
(Odo swerves down a side corridor.) 
DAX: Is it my imagination, or did Odo just try and avoid us? 
KIRA: I didn't notice. We've been avoiding each other ever since the Dominion left the station. I think we're both afraid of talking about what happened during the occupation. 
DAX: What do you mean? 
KIRA: To tell you the truth, it's nothing I want to talk about right now either. 
[Briefing room]
(Smaller than the wardroom, with just a table, chairs and big wall screen.) 
WORF: Thank you for coming. As you probably know by now, Jadzia and I will be married here on the station in six days. 
BASHIR: There's nothing more romantic than a wedding on DS Nine in springtime. 
O'BRIEN: When the neutrinos are in bloom. 
WORF: By tradition, the Klingon man spends the four nights before his wedding on a mental and spiritual journey. It is called Kal'Hyah, the path of clarity. And he is accompanied by his closest male friends. 
MARTOK: You cannot imagine the experience that awaits us. Four long nights filled with song and fellowship. A time of unbridled pleasures. 
O'BRIEN: Are we talking about a bachelor party? 
WORF: It is a similar ritual. 
BASHIR: That's good enough for me. 
O'BRIEN: Me too. 
SISKO: Count me in. 
WORF: We will meet in the holosuite tomorrow night at twenty one hundred hours. 
MARTOK: I advise you all to get plenty of rest. 
BASHIR: Four nights at a Klingon bachelor party. Just think of the possibilities. 
O'BRIEN: Thank God Keiko's not here. 
(O'Brien and Bashir leave.) 
SISKO: I wonder what Dax will be doing while we're travelling down Kal'Hyah? 
MARTOK: She will be taking a different journey with my wife. 
SISKO: Your wife? 
[Airlock]
MARTOK: By marrying Worf, Dax will be joining the House of Martok. Since the Mistress of a Great House must approve all marriages, Sirella will spend the next four days evaluating Jadzia. 
(The airlock opens and a stately Klingon woman comes out.) 
MARTOK: My Lady. 
SIRELLA: You've put on weight and your hair is going grey. 
MARTOK: My deterioration is proceeding apace. 
SIRELLA: I thought you would be in your grave by now. 
MARTOK: I shall endeavour to die this year, if possible. Allow me to present Captain Benjamin Sisko, Commander of Deep Space Nine. Captain, may I present the Mistress of the House of Martok, my wife and the mother of my children, Sirella, daughter of Linkasa. 
SISKO: Welcome to Deep Space Nine. 
SIRELLA: Thank you, Captain. Where is she? 
MARTOK: Jadzia's quarters are in the Habitat ring, section twenty five alpha. Shall I escort you? It's quite far away. 
SIRELLA: I'll find my way. If you'll excuse me. 
(Yup, they're deeply in love. I'm thinking Benedick and Beatrice from 
Much Ado About Nothing
.) 
MARTOK: Magnificent, isn't she? 
[Dax's quarters]
WORF: Are these real var'Hama candles? 
DAX: Yes, Worf. I travelled to Kronos, I captured three targs in the Hamar Mountains, made the ritual sacrifice at dawn, came back to the station, asked Quark to boil their shoulders into tallow. Then I spent two days molding them into candles with my own hands. 
WORF: I was just asking. 
DAX: You were criticising. Again. Relax. She's not going to reject a prospective daughter because the var'Hama candles in her welcoming display were replicated. 
(Doorbell) 
DAX: Come in. 
(Sirella enters.) 
DAX: Tuq son bosh mok A'Beh Sirella koh. E'Gagh vet moh. 
SIRELLA: What is he doing here? 
WORF: I meant no disrespect. 
SIRELLA: Then leave. (Worf leaves.) 
SIRELLA: Your worthiness to join our House will now be judged according to the traditions of my family. 
DAX: I am prepared, my lady. 
SIRELLA: I doubt that. A Klingon woman would find it difficult to gain my favour. For an alien, it will most likely be impossible. 
DAX: I like a challenge. 
SIRELLA: I will not have my authority challenged by you. 
DAX: That's not what I meant. 
SIRELLA: If you cannot say what you mean, say nothing at all. The evaluation will begin tomorrow morning. Have the traditional meal prepared before I arrive. And in the future, if you cannot trouble yourself to make real var'Hama candles, try not to use such obvious fakes. 
[Rotarran ready room]
WORF: You never told me that your wife was opposed to this marriage. 
MARTOK: Sirella is a woman of strong convictions. She believes that by bringing aliens into our families we risk losing our identity as Klingons. 
WORF: That is a prejudiced, xenophobic view. 
MARTOK: We are Klingons, Worf. We don't embrace other cultures, we conquer them. If someone wishes to join us, they must honour our traditions and prove themselves worthy of wearing the crest of a great House. 
WORF: Jadzia is worthy. 
MARTOK: Of course she is. She is an honourable woman and a formidable warrior. 
WORF: You should say that to Sirella. 
MARTOK: That's not such a good idea. I don't want her to think that I'm interfering in her domain. 
WORF: Perhaps I should speak with her. Coming from me, it would not seem like a challenge to her authority. 
MARTOK: I wouldn't do that if I were you. 
WORF: Why? 
MARTOK: Well, the truth is, she doesn't like you that much either. 
WORF: Me. 
MARTOK: Don't let that bother you I had every right to bring you into the family and she's accepted the fact that there's nothing she can do about it. 
WORF: How comforting. 
MARTOK: And they say that you have no sense of humour. 
[Holosuite cave]
(Dark, with a central fire and lit by flaming torches.) 
BASHIR: I could do without the heat. I can't say much for the decor either. 
O'BRIEN: Well, it can't be all fun and games. I'm sure there has to be some sort of ritual we have to go through before the party begins. There is going to be a party, isn't there? 
ALEXANDER: You're asking me? I can barely say my name in Klingon. 
MARTOK: Prepare yourselves, my friends, for a journey you won't soon forget. 
WORF: These are Ma'Stakas. 
(Worf hands out staves with big balls on the end.) 
BASHIR: What do we do with them? 
MARTOK: At the conclusion of the wedding ceremony, you will use them to attack Worf and Dax. 
O'BRIEN: Obviously. Don't you know anything? 
WORF: The tradition dates back to the wedding of Kahless and Lukara, who were nearly killed by Molor's troops moments after they were married. Until the ceremony, you should keep them with you at all times. 
SISKO: I trust that this combat is non-lethal? 
MARTOK: It is a symbolic attack only. 
(Alexander has found the buffet table.) 
WORF: The food is not to be eaten. 
ALEXANDER: Then what is it for? 
WORF: It is here to tempt us into breaking our fast. 
SISKO: Fast? 
WORF: There are six trials we must face on the path to Kal'Hyah. This is the first, deprivation. We now begin a fast that will continue until the day of the wedding. 
BASHIR: That's four days away. 
MARTOK: It is a short time, I know, but we must make the best of it. 
SISKO: What are the other five trials? 
WORF: Blood, pain, sacrifice, anguish and death. 
BASHIR: Sounds like marriage all right. 
O'BRIEN: How would you know? 
WORF: It is time to begin. 
[Quark's]
(The bar is being redecorated Klingon-style and the breakables removed) 
QUARK: More flowers up the banister. 
FERENGI: We're ready with the banner, boss. 
QUARK: Raise it. You're up early. I thought writers slept late. 
JAKE: Not always. I sold my first book today. 
QUARK: Really? How much did you get for it? 
JAKE: It's just a figure of speech. The Federation News Service is going to publish a book of my stories about life on the station under Dominion rule. 
QUARK: And they're not paying you? 
JAKE: No. 
QUARK: Well then, you have my sympathies and the first round of drinks is on the house. 
JAKE: Really? 
QUARK: No. It's a figure of speech. 
JAKE: Look, I want to tell my Dad about the book. Is he still in the holosuite? 
QUARK: Oh, yeah, they're still up there. 
JAKE: What are they doing? 
QUARK: It's a Klingon bachelor party. You're a writer, use your imagination. 
[Holosuite cave]
(Alexander has passed out.) 
BASHIR: Alexander? 
ALEXANDER: Grandma? 
BASHIR: Guess again. 
ALEXANDER: We're still on the 
BASHIR: The road to Kal'Hyah, day five hundred. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe we should turn down the heat, you know, for Alexander's sake. 
ALEXANDER: No, it's okay. I just need some water. 
BASHIR: Now you don't want to push yourself too hard. You know, turning down the heat might be a good idea. 
MARTOK: The whole point is to push yourself to the limits of your endurance. 
ALEXANDER: I will. I want to travel the entire path to Kal'Hyah. Stoke the fire again! 
WORF: As you wish. 
MARTOK: Of course, we cannot expect you non-Klingons to have the same stamina as we do. If you wish to quit, no one will think any less of you. 
BASHIR: Who said anything about quitting? 
SISKO: Not me. 
O'BRIEN: I like the heat. 
MARTOK: That's the spirit! (sings) Kavek ko lee ko 
MARTOK + WORF: Eh to che mah lo Tah oo-wah kah esh to pah deh ah re! Yah bosh-ah! Yah bosh-ah!, Yah bosh tomah! 
[Dax's quarters]
(Dax is under physical stress, holding two heavy smoldering buckets out from her side at arms length.) 
DAX: Al'Qoch mensah t'lang cho. 
(She puts them down onto pedestals.) 
SIRELLA: Again. 
DAX: I've done it three times already. 
SIRELLA: You continue to rush through the ceremony, your body position is poor and the placement of the braziers on their pedestals is sloppy. 
DAX: Do you know how heavy those things are? 
SIRELLA: A Klingon woman would not complain. 
DAX: You wouldn't make a Klingon woman do it three times in a row. 
SIRELLA: I wouldn't have to. She'd have done it correctly the first time. End this now, Jadzia. Go back to your own people. They will tolerate your weaknesses and your failings in a way that a Klingon family never will. In our House, you would always be an alien, an outsider. At best, you'd be an object of pity. But you'd never be accepted, never an equal, because you can never truly be one of us. 
(Dax lifts the braziers again.) 
DAX: Ko'ma tlang'goS ak-bay. Hava'dak croosh tovah. Ko'ma Kahless. Ko'ma Kahless. Ko'ma Kahless. (Much later, with the fake candles burning on the table.) 
DAX: But the second Dynasty ended when General K'Trelan assassinated Emperor Reclaw. For the next ten years, the Empire was ruled by a Council elected by the people. Modern-day Klingon historians refer to this as The Dark Time, but it's interesting to note that this first and only experiment in Klingon democracy actually produced several reforms that 
SIRELLA: You are straying from the saga. 
DAX: Am I? 
SIRELLA: Your task is to recite the complete chronicle of the women in my family. 
DAX: I just thought I'd provide you with a broader historical perspective along the way. 
SIRELLA: I am familiar with Klingon history. Now, return to the story of my twenty third maternal grandmother, Shenara, daughter of Emperor Reclaw in the Second Dynasty. 
DAX: Well, that's where we run into a little bit of a problem. You see, I did some research and when Emperor Reclaw was killed all the members of the Imperial Family were also put to death. Including Shenara. When the Third Dynasty was founded ten years later, a new group of Klingons were given the titles and the names of the original Imperial Family to create the illusion of an unbroken line. So the woman that you think of as your twenty third maternal grandmother isn't related to you at all. Your real ancestor's name was Karana, a concubine living outside the Imperial stables. 
SIRELLA: My grandmother's name was Shenara. 
DAX: That may be what's been passed down from generation to generation, but it has no basis in fact. But who cares about facts? The chronicle says that you have imperial blood in your veins and that's exactly what we'll telling everyone. 
SIRELLA: Continue with the saga. 
DAX: My pleasure. 
[Promenade]
JAKE: Hey, Major. Is it true Dax is having a party tomorrow night? 
KIRA: News travels fast. 
JAKE: Well, is it by invitation or? 
KIRA: I'm sure you're welcome, and you can tell Nog the same goes for him too. 
JAKE: Great. 
KIRA: Oh, I understand congratulations are in order to our newest published author. 
JAKE: Thank you. 
(Odo comes out of his office. They both look at each other then Kira turns around and Odo heads off across the Promenade.) 
JAKE: What was all that about? 
KIRA: Nothing. There they go. 
(Bashir, Alexander, Sisko and O'Brien with staves and robes.) 
KIRA: They look so serious. 
JAKE: It's all an act. They don't want the rest of us to know what kind of debauchery they're up to. 
KIRA: Like what? 
JAKE: It's a Klingon bachelor party. Use your imagination. 
[Holosuite cave]
WORF: Now begins the trial of blood. 
MARTOK: Let rivers flow from our veins. 
WORF: Who will be the first? 
(Sisko, O'Brien and Alexander all take one step back to leave someone who is almost asleep on his feet.) 
WORF: I did not expect it to be you, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Neither did I. 
WORF: Do not worry. The pain will last for only a moment. 
[Dax's quarters]
(Party time with a Samoan band and fire-dancer. He's superb.) 
KIRA: Isn't that great? 
(Dax is on bongos.) 
KIRA: He's unbelievable! 
WOMAN: He's something. 
DAX: Lieutenant Manuele Atoa from the starship Sutherland! 
ROM: I've never seen anything like that. 
LEETA: Neither have I. 
ROM: Let's get something to eat. 
JAKE: A woman of many talents. 
QUARK: It's a shame she's about to waste them all on that walking frown she calls a fianc�. She's too good for him. I've said that from the beginning. 
JAKE: Are you jealous? 
QUARK: There's no profit in jealousy. 
JAKE: That's not a denial. 
QUARK: It's not to be quoted either. 
JAKE: Don't worry. So when did you first realise you had these feelings for Dax? Quark, wait. 
[Holosuite cave]
(Bashir and O'Brien are hanging in manacles from a rope stretched across the cave.) 
BASHIR: Miles? 
O'BRIEN: Yeah? 
BASHIR: It's working. I've had a vision about the future. I can see it so clearly. 
O'BRIEN: What is it? 
BASHIR: I'm going to kill Worf. I'm going to kill Worf. That's what I'm going to do. I can see it clearly now. I'm going to kill him. Kill him. 
O'BRIEN: Kill Worf. Kill Worf. 
[Dax's quarters]
(Leeta is dancing on a tabletop and the drum beat is insistent. Kira and Nog are doing a Ferengi dance which is like cats pouncing. Odo enters with two deputies.) 
ODO: I have been getting complaints about the noise. Someone even mentioned a fight? 
KIRA: Oh, there was a scuffle between Morn and one of the Bolians, but they worked it out. 
(Morn and the Bolian are doing a chest-butting dance.) 
ODO: How long will this party continue? 
KIRA: This party will continue until further notice, on the personal authority of the station's First Officer, who just happens to be me. 
ODO: You're in a good mood. 
KIRA: Yeah, well, it's a good party. 
ODO: Well. 
KIRA: Odo. Odo, I think we have a lot to talk about. 
ODO: I agree. 
KIRA: So let's talk. 
ODO: Now? 
KIRA: Don't you think we've put it off long enough? 
ODO: (to the deputies) Enjoy yourselves. 
KIRA: Let's find someplace a little quieter. 
(Another fire dance has finished.) 
DAX: Thanks for the show. 
ATOA: Thanks for getting me the day off. 
DAX: Captain Shelby owed me a favour. Actually, he owed me several. In fact, how would you like to have another two days off? 
ATOA: Two? What do I have to do? 
DAX: Not much. Just give me something fun to look at for the rest of the evening. 
ATOA: Anything else? 
DAX: I'll let you know. 
SIRELLA: You! Leave her or I'll cut your head off and hang it from my belt. 
DAX: I'll take care of this. You weren't invited. 
SIRELLA: It is time for the Bre'Nan ritual. 
DAX: I'm busy. 
SIRELLA: Busy acting like a Risian slut. 
DAX: I'm only going to ask you to leave once. 
SIRELLA: You will come with me now and perform the Bre'Nan ritual to my satisfaction or I will cancel your wedding. 
DAX: Toruk-DOH! 
(Sirella draws her dagger but Dax disarms her and hits her.) 
NOG: Ladies, please! 
(Dax pushes Nog aside.) 
SIRELLA: Mok'Ta vor, kash a'VEH!
(Sirella spits and leaves) 
DAX: Why is everyone standing around? The party's just getting started. Play something. 
(Dax dances with Nog as Quark and Jake look at each other. Next morning, Dax steps carefully over the wreckage.) 
DAX: Double raktajino, extra sweet. 
(Atoa and Morn are behind a couch.) 
ATOA: What time is it? 
DAX: Ten thirty hours. 
ATOA: Come on. 
DAX: Wrong door. 
(Atoa and Morn totter to the main door. It opens to reveal Worf.) 
ATOA: Excuse me, sir. 
(Atoa and Morn leave.) 
WORF: Jadzia, we need to 
(Dax gestures shush and sips her coffee.) 
DAX: You're mad. 
WORF: I am concerned. 
DAX: Yeah, well, I'm hung over. Can we talk later? 
WORF: We have a very serious problem. Sirella has cancelled the wedding. 
DAX: She doesn't waste any time, does she? 
WORF: She said you attacked her. 
DAX: She pulled a knife. 
[Dax's bedroom]
WORF: You are forbidden to join the House of Martok. 
(Dax gets into bed.) 
DAX: So I won't get invited to the family picnics. I'll live. 
WORF: I cannot believe how you're taking this so lightly. 
DAX: Do you hear that? 
WORF: What? 
DAX: It sounds like voices. 
(She opens her closet to reveal) 
KIRA: Hi. 
DAX: Hi. 
ODO: Is the party over? 
DAX: You could say that. It's ten thirty. 
KIRA: In the morning? I'm on duty. 
ODO: So am I. 
KIRA: It was a great party. 
DAX: Thanks. 
(Kira and Odo leave. Dax goes back to bed.) 
WORF: We must deal with the situation now. 
DAX: Stop yelling. My head hurts. 
WORF: You must go to Sirella and beg her forgiveness. 
DAX: I don't beg. 
WORF: You are allowing your pride blind you. 
DAX: Look who's talking. You want me to go crawling to some old hag just so you can have your traditional Klingon wedding. 
WORF: This is about more than just tradition. You and I have embarked on a spiritual journey, one that will bind us together through this life and into the next. You cannot turn back now. 
DAX: Maybe you're on a spiritual journey, Worf, but I just want to get married. So why don't you go back to sweating and bleeding with your friends in the holosuite and when you're done, meet me in Benjamin's office and he'll perform the ceremony. 
WORF: If that is your attitude, perhaps Sirella was right about you. There should be no wedding. 
DAX: That's fine with me. 
[Quark's]
(The Klingon stuff is being taken down.) 
BASHIR: What's going on? 
QUARK: Haven't you heard? The wedding's off. 
O'BRIEN: Off? Why? 
QUARK: She says it's because he's a pigheaded, stubborn man who puts tradition before everything else. He says it's because she's a frivolous, emotional woman who refuses to take him or his culture seriously. You can see the problem. 
O'BRIEN: They're both right. 
QUARK: Exactly. 
BASHIR: Well, there's only one thing for it. 
O'BRIEN: Dinner. 
QUARK: I'll get the menu. 
[Worf's cabin]
WORF: Enter. 
MARTOK: Worf, you've made a grave error. 
WORF: Perhaps. 
MARTOK: Do you still love her? 
WORF: Of course. However, in this case, that may not be enough. Anyone can see that we are hopelessly mismatched. She is a Trill, I am a Klingon. She has had five marriages, this would be my first. When she is laughing, I am sombre. When I am happy, she is crying. She plays tongo with the Ferengi bartender. I can barely stand him. She mocks everything, while I take everything seriously. She is nothing like the woman I thought I would marry. 
MARTOK: We are not accorded the luxury of choosing the women we fall in love with. Do you think Sirella is anything like the woman I thought that I'd marry? She is a prideful, arrogant, mercurial woman who shares my bed far too infrequently for my taste. And yet I love her deeply. We Klingons often tout our prowess in battle, our desire for honour and glory above all else. But how hollow is the sound of victory without someone to share it with. Honour gives little comfort to a man alone in his home and in his heart. 
[Quark's]
(Dinner is served.) 
QUARK: One steak with mushrooms, baked potato, sour cream and chives. 
O'BRIEN: I should've had that. 
QUARK: One double Altair sandwich, no mustard, two bowls of linguini, Bajoran shrimp and extra cheese. One loaf of mapa bread. 
BASHIR: Quark, where's the kava juice? 
QUARK: They're still squeezing the roots. Unless you want replicated? 
BASHIR: We'll wait. 
SISKO: What do you think you're doing? 
O'BRIEN: The wedding's been called off. 
SISKO: It's back on. 
MARTOK: Worf is apologising to Jadzia at this very moment. 
SISKO: Quark, take it all away. No food for those on the path to Kal'Hyah. 
QUARK: No refunds for those on the path to Kal'Hyah as well. Sorry. 
(Worf enters.) 
ALEXANDER: Father, what happened? 
WORF: She refused to not change her mind. The wedding is still off. 
(The decorations start to come down again.) 
SISKO: Where is she? 
WORF: In her quarters. 
SISKO: I'll go talk to her. Just keep them away from the food. 
[Dax's quarters]
(Dax is displacing her anger by rearranging items on a shelf.) 
DAX: Come in. Save your breath. Worf went too far and now it's over. Do you know what he wanted me to do? He wanted me to go crawling on my hands and knees to Sirella to beg her forgiveness. Beg her! Me! I was once the Federation Ambassador to the Klingon Empire. I negotiated the Khitomer Accords before Worf was even born. 
SISKO: Curzon negotiated the Accords. And I've got news for you, old man. You're not Curzon anymore. 
DAX: And what the hell is that supposed to mean? 
SISKO: It means that you can't expect Sirella to treat you like Curzon just because you carry his memories. To her, you're just a young woman who decided to marry into her family. If it means you have to bow down and kiss her boots, that's exactly what you have to do. And you knew that. The moment you decided to marry Worf, you knew that sooner or later you'd have to bow down and show her the respect that she's due. 
DAX: This is Worf's fault. Worf and his traditional Klingon wedding. 
SISKO: Well, he may have let this wedding business go to his head, but you are three hundred fifty six years old. Compared to you, Worf is just a kid. And if you can't abide by Klingon traditions, then you never should have let yourself fall in love with him in the first place. And you are in love with him. 
DAX: I wasn't looking to fall in love. I was perfectly happy by myself. I had friends, a career, adventure. Then one day this Klingon with a bad attitude walked into my life and the next thing I know, I'm getting married. After three hundred fifty six years and seven lifetimes, I still lead with my heart. 
SISKO: You know, that is what I have always loved about you. And I think that's why Worf loves you, too. 
DAX: Whatever happened to that young, callow Ensign I used to know? The one who used to turn to me for advice all the time? You know, the one with hair? 
SISKO: I grew up. 
DAX: I guess it's time I grew up, too. 
[Quark's]
(The decorations are back and kettledrums are booming from the upper level. The lighting is deep red. Sirella walks onto a stage lit by four braziers.) 
SIRELLA: With fire and steel did the gods forge the Klingon heart. So fiercely did it beat, so loud was the sound, that the gods cried out, 'On this day we have brought forth the strongest heart in all the heavens. None can stand before it without trembling at its strength.' But then the Klingon heart weakened, its steady rhythm faltered and the gods said, 'Why have you weakened so? We have made you the strongest in all of creation. And the heart said 
WORF: I am alone. 
SIRELLA: And the gods knew that they had erred. So they went back to their forge and brought forth another heart. 
(Enter Dax in her red leather wedding dress and broad smile. Alexander brings two bat'leths.) 
SIRELLA: But the second heart beat stronger than the first, and the first was jealous of its power. 
(Worf and Dax cross bat'leths, and she puts hers against his neck.) 
SIRELLA: Fortunately, the second heart was tempered by wisdom. 
DAX: If we join together, no force can stop us. 
(They give the bat'leths back to Alexander.) 
SIRELLA: And when the two hearts began to beat together, they filled the heavens with a terrible sound. For the first time, the gods knew fear. They tried to flee, but it was too late. The Klingon hearts destroyed the gods who created them and turned the heavens to ashes. To this very day, no one can oppose the beating of two Klingon hearts. Not even me. Worf, son of Mogh, does your heart beat only for this woman? 
WORF: Yes. 
SIRELLA: And will you swear to join with her and stand with her against all who oppose you? 
WORF: I swear. 
SIRELLA: Jadzia, daughter of Kela, does your heart beat only for this man? 
DAX: Yes. 
SIRELLA: And do you swear to join with him and stand with him against all who would oppose you? 
DAX: I swear. 
SIRELLA: Then let all present here today know that this man and this woman are married. 
(Worf kisses his bride.) 
BASHIR: Now? 
MARTOK: Not yet. 
(Sirella embraces Worf.) 
BASHIR: Now? 
MARTOK: Patience. 
(Dax curtseys to Sirella.) 
DAX: My lady. 
SIRELLA: Welcome to the House of Martok, my daughter. 
(Sirella and Dax embrace.) 
MARTOK: Now, Doctor! 
(Blackout for the blood-curdling screams and thumping sounds.) 

