Episode Number: 513
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - By Inferno's Light
By Inferno's Light
Stardate: 50564.2
Original Airdate: 17 Feb, 1997
Last time on Star Trek Deep Space Nine.
SISKO: One of our listening posts in the Gamma Quadrant picked this up a few minutes ago. 
DAX: It looks like a Cardassian military code, but the computer doesn't recognise it. 
GARAK: It was a call for help from Enabran Tain. 
WORF: We must warn the station. There is only one reason for the Dominion to hide such a large fleet this close to the wormhole. 
GARAK: You think they're planning to attack the Alpha Quadrant? 
SISKO: There's no way we can beat the Dominion. Our only hope is to prevent their fleet from entering the Alpha Quadrant. 
KIRA: You're going to destroy the wormhole? 
DUKAT: You have to trust me. Things are going to change on Cardassia. 
ZIYAL: What things? 
DUKAT: I don't have time to explain. You're leaving now. 
ZIYAL: I can't go. 
DUKAT: It's him, isn't it? That despicable tailor. You don't want to leave because you're waiting for him? 
IKAT'IKA: This is Internment camp three seven one. You are here because you are enemies of the Dominion. 
TAIN: You're not my son. 
GARAK: Father, you're dying. For once in your life, speak the truth. 
WORF: General Martok. 
MARTOK: The changeling that replaced me has caused the death of countless Klingons. It is a grave dishonour. 
BASHIR: I can only imagine what my replacement is up to on the station. 
(They try to destroy the wormhole, but) 
DAX: We're losing it. 
SISKO: What happened? 
O'BRIEN: Someone sabotaged the emitter array. 
(WHOOSH - and out come the Jem'Hadar fleet.) 
SISKO: Battle stations. 
And now the conclusion.
[Bridge]
KIRA: Release docking clamps. 
DAX: Clamps released. 
KIRA: Shields up. Power to phasers and quantum torpedoes. 
DAX: Weapons ready. 
KIRA: Bring us around. 
(The Defiant is joined by two Runabouts and Dukat's Klingon Bird of Prey.) 
DAX: Dukat's bird of prey is in position. 
KIRA: Maintain communications blackout. Nobody fires until we have our orders from Captain Sisko. 
DAX: There sure are a lot of them. 
KIRA: That'll just make it harder for us to miss. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: They're still not responding to our hails. 
SISKO: I think they're trying to intimidate us. 
O'BRIEN: It's working. I don't believe it. The Dominion ships are turning away from the station. They're laying in a new course. 
SISKO: Heading? 
O'BRIEN: Straight for Cardassia. 
[Bridge]
DAX: Dukat's ship is breaking formation. He's going after the Dominion fleet. 
KIRA: Open a channel. Dukat, stop trying to be a hero. Get back to the station. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Your concern is touching, Major, but I think you misunderstand me. I'm not attacking the Dominion fleet I'm joining it. 
KIRA: What are you talking about? 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: I'm afraid I have a confession to make, Major. For the past few months, I've been conducting secret negotiations between the Dominion and Cardassia. And as of last week, Cardassia has agreed to become part of the Dominion. 
KIRA: You can't be serious. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Goodbye, Major. You and I on the same side. It never seemed quite right, did it? 
KIRA: Lock phasers. open fire. 
DAX: Too late. He's gone. 
[Barracks]
(The Romulan woman is keeping a watch at the barrack door.) 
ROMULAN: All clear. 
WORF: The transmitter Tain used to contact the station. Where is it? 
(Bashir gets a piece of metal from under Tain's bunk and uses it as a key to open a lower section of the wall.) 
BASHIR: You have to crawl through that hole and kind of slide your way up into the wall. 
MARTOK: It took him over a year to modify the old life-support system into a transmitter. 
WORF: How did he operate it? 
MARTOK: He wired the message and the transmission coordinates directly into the system circuitry. That way all he had to do was connect the transmitter to the power grid and let it run. 
WORF: Could the coordinates and the message be changed? 
GARAK: You're planning to contact the runabout. 
WORF: We could activate the transporter and beam ourselves onto the ship. 
BASHIR: And run like hell. 
GARAK: Re-encoding the transmitter won't be easy. We'd have to reconfigure the array one circuit at a time. 
BASHIR: Can you do it? 
GARAK: Me? 
BASHIR: I'm no engineer and neither is Mister Worf here. You, on the other hand, my dear Mister Garak, are a man of many hidden talents. If you can't do it, nobody can. 
GARAK: It's nice to feel needed. 
GUARD [OC]: All prisoners assemble immediately. I repeat. All prisoners assemble immediately. 
[Internment centre]
WORF: Who is that? 
MARTOK: Deyos. The Vorta who runs this camp. 
IKAT'IKA: No talking. 
BASHIR: Touchy, aren't they? 
DEYOS: All Cardassian prisoners step forward. (seven of them) I am pleased to announce that the hostilities between our peoples have ended. As of today, Cardassia has joined the Dominion. Therefore, you're all being sent home. Congratulations on your new status as Dominion citizens. Not you, Mister Garak. 
GARAK: Excuse me? 
DEYOS: You're staying. 
GARAK: Well there must be some of misunderstanding. The last time I checked, I was a Cardassian. 
DEYOS: But not a very popular one, I'm afraid. At least not with the head of the new Cardassian government. 
GARAK: And who would that be? 
DEYOS: Gul Dukat. 
[Cardassia]
DUKAT: (on viewscreen) You might ask, should we fear joining the Dominion? And I answer you, not in the least. We should embrace the opportunity. The Dominion recognises us for what we are. 
[Wardroom]
DUKAT: (on monitor) The true leaders of the Alpha Quadrant. And now that we are joined together, equal partners in all endeavours, the only people with anything to fear will be our enemies. My oldest son's birthday is in five days. To him and to Cardassians everywhere, I make the following pledge. By the time his birthday dawns, there will not be a single Klingon alive inside Cardassian territory or a single Maquis colony left within our borders. Cardassia will be made whole. All that we have lost will be ours again, and anyone who stands in our way will be destroyed. This I vow with my life's blood. For my son, for all our sons. 
DAX: Somebody tell me this is a bad dream. 
SISKO: It's no dream. 
KIRA: Well, I've got a vow to make too. Next time I see Dukat I'm going to kill him. 
SISKO: Right now we have a more immediate concern. Such as who sabotaged our graviton emitters? 
O'BRIEN: I don't know who it was, but they did a pretty thorough job. The emitters had the exact opposite effect to what we'd intended. They were supposed to collapse the wormhole's spatial matrix and close it forever. Instead, they made the matrix even more stable. Not even trilithium explosives could destroy it now. 
DAX: So the Dominion can send reinforcements through the wormhole whenever they want. 
BASHIR 2: Looks like it's time for another round of blood screenings. Obviously we have a changeling infiltrator on the station. 
DAX: What makes you think it's a changeling? 
BASHIR 2: That's who I'd send. 
KIRA: I think Julian's right. Odo tells me that a Bajoran maintenance engineers has been missing ever since the Dominion fleet arrived in the Alpha Quadrant. 
BASHIR 2: And if that was our changeling, he's either gone or assumed a new identity. 
SISKO: We can't afford to take any chances. I want blood screenings and phaser sweeps. If he's out there, we've got to find him. 
[Barracks]
MARTOK: He's taking too much time. 
BASHIR: How long has he been in there? 
WORF: Close to an hour. 
BASHIR: Garak? How's it coming along? 
[Crawlspace]
GARAK: I only wish I were still a member of the Obsidian Order. This would make a wonderful interrogation chamber. Tight quarters, no air, bad lighting, random electric shocks. It's perfect. 
BASHIR [OC]: Sounds like you're enjoying yourself. 
GARAK: If you'd like, I'd happily trade places with you. 
[Barracks]
BASHIR: I suppose you could give me a crash course in Cardassian field engineering. I should be ready to take over from you in what, five or six weeks? 
ROMULAN: Visitors. 
BASHIR: Quiet. 
(They close up the wall just before the Jem'Hadar enter.) 
IKAT'IKA: It's time. 
WORF: I am ready. 
IKAT'IKA: I've been looking forward to this. 
WORF: So have I. 
(Worf, Martok and the Jem'Hadar leave.) 
BASHIR: Give me a hand. 
(The male Romulan helps move the bunk.) 
BASHIR: Hold on, Garak. 
ROMULAN: Wait. The guards are still too close. 
BASHIR: Just a little while longer, Garak. 
[Internment centre]
(Worf is in the ring, preparing to fight, and Martok is his second.) 
WORF: I thought I would be fighting Ikat'ika. 
MARTOK: I would not be so eager if I were you. This (his missing eye) is his handiwork. 
WORF: He has much to answer for. 
MARTOK: His time will come. Now remember, every time you hit the ground, you must touch one of those posts or else you forfeit the match. 
IKAT'IKA: Today, we train against a worthy adversary. Observe, analyse, remember. Soon we will face his people in combat. The lessons you learn here will ensure victory. Victory is life. 
JEM'HADAR: Victory is life. 
IKAT'IKA: Begin. 
(Worf is the first to hit the floor, but he soon gets his own back.) 
[Barracks]
BASHIR: Come on. 
(Finally the guard walks away to watch the match.) 
ROMULAN: Clear. 
(Bashir opens the panel and Garak is quickly out.) 
GARAK: That was thoroughly unpleasant. 
BASHIR: Are you all right? 
GARAK: I am fine. It's just much hotter in there than I thought. I got a little lightheaded. Give me a minute and I'll go back in there. 
BASHIR: No, you need more than a minute. Your pulse is racing. I don't want to think about your blood pressure. Maybe you should wait until tomorrow. 
GARAK: Do you want to get off this hellhole or not? 
BASHIR: You know I do. 
GARAK: Then let me get back to work. 
BASHIR: Rest for five minutes. And from here on in you can take a fifteen minute break every hour. Doctor's orders. 
[Internment centre]
(Worf finally pummels his opponent into the ground.) 
WORF: Was that the best you have to offer? 
IKAT'IKA: He was our youngest and least experienced. I promise your next opponent will provide more of a challenge. 
[Promenade - upper level]
KIRA: The view's even better from upper pylon two. 
ZIYAL: I keep hoping the wormhole will open, that Garak's runabout will come through and everything will be all right again. 
KIRA: Maybe it will. 
ZIYAL: My father says Garak's dead. 
KIRA: Right now I wouldn't believe your father if he said rain was wet. 
ZIYAL: I used to think my father was a hero. That even when he did something bad, he had a good reason. 
KIRA: Everyone has their reasons. That's what's so frightening. People can find a way to justify any action, no matter how evil. 
ZIYAL: You think my father is evil? 
KIRA: I think you can't judge people by what they think or say, only by what they do. 
Captain's log, stardate 50564.2. A large contingent of Klingon warships has arrived from Cardassian space, but its intentions, at least for the moment, remain unclear. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: We're being hailed. 
DAX: It's Chancellor Gowron. He's requesting permission to dock. They've got wounded. 
SISKO: Permission granted. I have the feeling the Klingons' war against the Cardassians has taken a turn for the worse. 
[Infirmary]
(The fake Bashir treats a burn on the Chancellor's hand.) 
GOWRON: This is a dark day, not only for the Klingon Empire, but for the Alpha Quadrant itself. 
SISKO: So what are we going to do about it? 
GOWRON: I will do what must be done. Fall back. Pull my forces out of Cardassian space, fortify the Klingon Empire and prepare for a fight to the death. 
SISKO: Maybe there's a better way. 
(Sisko offers a PADD.) 
GOWRON: The Khitomer Accords? The treaty between the Federation and the Klingon Empire is dead. 
SISKO: But we can bring it back to life again. This is the most fortified position between here and the Klingon Empire. There will be a Starfleet task force will be here soon. If you could bring your fleet here. 
GOWRON: Then we could stand united against the Dominion. And if we do 
BASHIR 2: We might have a chance. 
(Gowron puts his thumbprint on the Accords.) 
GOWRON: Think of it. Five years ago no one had ever heard of Bajor or Deep Space Nine, and now all our hopes rest here. Where the tides of fortune take us, no man can know. 
SISKO: They're tricky, those tides. 
[Runabout Yukon]
(Fake Bashir is working on a panel) 
[Internment centre]
(It's another match, another opponent for Worf. He snaps the Jem'Hadar's neck and howls in victory.) 
MARTOK: Five matches and five victories. You truly have the spirit of Kahless within you. 
IKAT'IKA: Until tomorrow. 
WORF: I'll be waiting! 
[Barracks]
BASHIR: You've got three broken ribs, maybe four. 
WORF: They will heal. 
BASHIR: Not if you keep fighting, they won't. You're lucky you didn't puncture a lung. A body, even a Klingon body, can only take so much punishment. 
WORF: I will fight. 
MARTOK: It is the only honourable thing to do. 
BASHIR: He'll lose. And in this condition, he might even die. 
WORF: Then I will die. But I will not yield. 
MARTOK: You heard him. Bandage his ribs. 
[Crawlspace]
(The fibreoptic strands Garak is using as a light source are flickering.) 
GARAK: I'm sorry, but that's absolutely unacceptable. I'm under enough strain as it is, I can't have you quitting on me. Get a hold of yourself, Garak. After all, you haven't had one of these attacks in years. Yes, this is a tight enclosed space. Yes, there's not a lot of room to move. But a disciplined mind does not allow itself to be sidetracked by niggling psychological disorders like claustrophobia. Besides, this isn't like Tzenketh. The walls won't collapse in on you. Your friends are near by, there's plenty of air, so there's nothing to be concerned about. Focus on the job. You're the only person who can contact the runabout. People are depending on you. Ziyal is depending on you. You promised her you'd come back, and that young lady has had quite enough disappointments in her life without you adding to them, so control yourself. You're stronger than this. A disciplined mind 
(And the light goes out) 
[Barracks]
BASHIR: I'm afraid that's the best I can do. Does it feel any better? 
WORF: Much better. 
BASHIR: You're not a very good liar, Mister Worf. 
(Bang, thump, thump.) 
MARTOK: What was that? 
WORF: It's coming from inside the wall. 
BASHIR: Garak. 
MARTOK: How long has he been in there? 
BASHIR: About half an hour. Garak? Garak, what is it? 
MARTOK: Tell him to stop before they hear him. 
BASHIR: Garak, the panel's open now. You can come out. We've got to get him out of there. 
[Crawlspace]
BASHIR: Garak. Garak, you have to stop. You're making too much noise. Garak. Garak. 
GARAK: The light. The light went out. 
BASHIR: I know. Come on. I think you can take your break a little early. 
[Barracks]
(Garak is put to bed, eyes staring.) 
BASHIR: It would appear that he suffers from an acute form of claustrophobia. It's a wonder that he lasted as long as he did. 
WORF: Then one of us will have to finish reconfiguring the transmitter. 
BASHIR: And who would you suggest could do that? (silence) Exactly. 
MARTOK: If Garak can't contact the runabout, we're not going anywhere. 
[Ops]
DAX: The last of Gowron's ships have arrived. 
O'BRIEN: I'll have a repair crew get to work on them right away. 
SISKO: Any word from Starfleet? 
DAX: Admiral Gilhouly's task force is less than four light years away. 
SISKO: I'll feel a lot better when they get here. 
O'BRIEN: You're not the only one. 
KIRA: Captain. 
SISKO: Yes, Major. 
KIRA: I just talked to Odo. Someone overrode the security blocks on the industrial replicator on level seventeen. 
SISKO: Sounds like our saboteur. Did they catch him? 
KIRA: No such luck. 
DAX: Do they know what he replicated? 
KIRA: He wiped the memory core. 
SISKO: Tell Odo I want all security details to pull double shifts as of now. If he wants more men, have him talk to Gowron. I'm sure the Chancellor will be willing to assign some Klingon troops to guard key facilities. 
KIRA: Klingons helping to protect Deep Space Nine. What an interesting concept. 
SISKO: These are interesting times, Major. 
DAX: Captain, incoming message. It's Gul Dukat. 
SISKO: In my office. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Dukat. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Please, Captain. Show a little respect. You are talking to the head of the Cardassian government. 
SISKO: I don't recognise that government. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Your recognition is irrelevant. 
SISKO: Well, if that's what you think, why are we having this conversation? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Because the fact is, Captain, I feel a certain obligation toward you. After all, I freely admit you saved my life on more than one occasion. 
SISKO: Don't remind me. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Oh, no, you should be glad you did. Because now I'm going to return the favour and give you a chance to save your precious Federation. All you have to do is convince them to follow Cardassia's example. 
SISKO: You expect us to join the Dominion? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: I expect you to behave rationally. Joining the Dominion will save billions of lives and keep the Federation from fading into the mists of history. 
SISKO: By allowing it to exist under Dominion rule? No thank you. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: I'm afraid you'll like the alternative even less. 
SISKO: Dukat, if you have something to say to me, say it. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Then I'll make it simple then A few days ago, I swore all Cardassia had lost would be regained. That space station you're so fond of was built by Cardassia. 
SISKO: Funny, I thought it was built by Bajoran slave labour. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Either surrender the station, or I'll take it by force. The choice is yours. 
SISKO: If you want to retake this station, Dukat, you are welcome to try. 
[Barracks]
MARTOK: Seven battles and seven victories. What hero of legend have done as well? 
WORF: Heroes of legends don't ache so much. 
MARTOK: Your Federation friends have taught you modesty, but this is no time for modesty. When we return to the Klingon Empire, I will seek out Keedera himself and tell him of your glorious tale. He will write a song worthy of you. 
BASHIR: Well, be sure to send me a copy. 
MARTOK: I'll do better than that. I can make sure that he mentions you, the healer who bound the warrior's wounds so he could fight again. 
WORF: Right now, the only part of the song that I wish to hear is the verse that tells of our escape. What good is defeating every Jem'Hadar soldier in this compound if it does not bring us closer to our freedom? 
BASHIR: We have to come up with a new escape plan. 
GARAK: That won't be necessary. The original one will work. I just have to finish what I started. After all, a verse about the Cardassian who panicked in the face of danger would ruin General Martok's song. 
MARTOK: And would be unfortunate. 
GARAK: Now, if you'll excuse me, my dungeon awaits. 
MARTOK: There is no greater enemy than one's own fears. 
WORF: It takes a brave man to face them. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR 2: What can I do for you, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: Wasn't Lieutenant Japar brought in here? 
BASHIR 2: The Klingon engineer? You just missed him. The plasma burns weren't as bad as they looked. 
O'BRIEN: I'd better go find him. I can't make head nor tail of the power relay systems on his bird of prey. We're never going to get all these Klingon ships up and running. 
BASHIR 2: I have every confidence in you, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Ah, that makes all the difference then, doesn't it. 
BASHIR 2: How are Keiko and the kids? 
O'BRIEN: They made it safely to Bajor, but I'm worried about Molly. She's getting old enough to know when something's wrong. I think she's scared. 
BASHIR 2: Well, it's only natural. It'll pass. Oh, by the way, I ordered two new sets of those new duridium alloy darts I told you about. They should be here next week. 
O'BRIEN: Darts? We're facing a major interstellar war and you're thinking about darts? 
BASHIR 2: Well, life must go on. Besides, I have a feeling things are going to turn out for the best. 
O'BRIEN: I hope you're right. 
[Quark's cafe]
QUARK: Your asparagus with yamok sauce. The last of my fresh asparagus, I might add. Not that I'll need to stock it anymore. Somehow I get the feeling there won't be much of a demand for human food once the Jem'Hadar have finished with this place. 
ZIYAL: Aren't you being a little pessimistic? 
QUARK: Am I? The Jem'Hadar don't eat, don't drink, and they don't have sex. And if that wasn't bad enough, the Founders don't eat and don't drink, and they don't have sex either. Which, between you and me, makes my financial future less than promising. 
ZIYAL: It might not be so bad. For all we know the Vorta could be gluttonous, alcoholic sex maniacs. 
QUARK: I never thought of that. I wonder what their favourite food is? 
[Ops]
SISKO: Good news. The Starfleet task force under Admiral Gilhouly has entered Bajoran space. 
KIRA: Hope they know what they're in for. 
[Internment centre]
WORF: First they demand we come out here, then they make us wait. 
MARTOK: They are worthy fighters, but they have no sense of honour. 
(The Vorta has arrived.) 
WORF: Is there no Jem'Hadar willing to face me? 
DEYOS: Fascinating. Even after all he's been through, the Klingon still thirsts for battle. Doesn't he ever tire of it? 
IKAT'IKA: I never do. 
DEYOS: You fight because that is what you were designed to do. All that motivates him is some barbaric sense of honour. 
IKAT'IKA: And that is something you will never understand. Prepare yourself. I've found you a worthy opponent. 
WORF: Where is he? 
IKAT'IKA: Right in front of you. Victory is life. 
WORF: Today is a good day to die. 
[Barracks]
(The lady Romulan is keeping a lookout, as the Breen sits and Bashir worries.) 
[Crawlspace]
GARAK: Tain, I don't know if you can hear me, but if you can I just want you to know you may not have been much of a father, but I really wish you were alive right now. That way you could be in here instead of me. 
[Internment centre]
(Ikat'ika knocks Worf down, eventually.) 
[Barracks]
ROMULAN: Jem'Hadar. 
BASHIR: Can we get him out? 
ROMULAN: No time.
(Three Jem'Hadar enter.); 
JEM'HADAR: The Cardassian. Where is he? 
BASHIR: Outside, I suppose. 
(Bashir gets knocked down.) 
JEM'HADAR: He is not outside. 
(The search begins) 
JEM'HADAR: Move. 
(The Breen stands up.) 
BASHIR: What do you want with him? 
[Crawlspace]
JEM'HADAR [OC]: He is to be put to death. 
[Barracks]
GUARD: Sir. 
(He's found the key to the panel.) 
JEM'HADAR: If you wish to live, explain this. 
[Ops]
KIRA: The Bird of Prey Y'tem is in position. 
O'BRIEN: That's everybody. 
SISKO: Major, Commander, report to the Defiant. 
DAX: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: Good luck. 
KIRA: To all of us. 
(Kira and Dax leave.) 
SISKO: Deploy the runabouts. 
[Runabout Yukon]
O'BRIEN [OC]: Runabout Yukon, prepare for departure. Runabouts Rio Grande and Volga stand by. 
BASHIR 2: (woman's voice) Yukon ready. Engines engaged. 
(The crew are laid out on the floor.) 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Good luck, Yukon. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: Sir, I'm picking up a large tachyon buildup, multiple vectors. Ships decloaking. 
(Big green meanies appear.) 
SISKO: Romulans. 
O'BRIEN: They're requesting permission to join the fleet. 
SISKO: I'll be damned. Permission granted. 
KIRA [OC]: Defiant to Ops. 
O'BRIEN: Go ahead, Major. 
KIRA [OC]: Sensors have just detected Dominion and Cardassian ships entering Bajoran space. ETA ten minutes. 
[Barracks]
JEM'HADAR: I'll ask you for the last time. What is this? 
BASHIR: It's either a self-sealing stem bolt or a reverse ratcheting router, I'm just not sure. 
(The male Romulan is vapourised.) 
JEM'HADAR: She is next. 
GUARD: Sir. If you'll allow me? 
(He's moved Tain's bunk away from the panel.) 
[Crawlspace]
(Garak hears the panel being opened and turns off the light.) 
[Internment centre]
(Worf continues to be pummelled to the ground.) 
MARTOK: Worf, honour has been satisfied. Stay down. 
(But Worf gets up) 
DEYOS: Finish this. 
(Worf gets knocked down again) 
[Barracks]
(The soldier peers into the crawlspace.) 
JEM'HADAR: What do you see? 
GUARD: I see nothing. It's dark.;
(The Breen takes the officer's gun and vapourises him with it. The guard gets up and kills the Breen as he also gets shot. Meanwhile the third Jem'Hadar is struggling with the female Romulan. Bashir stabs him in the neck with the piece of metal.) 
ROMULAN: My people have a saying. Never turn your back on a Breen. 
[Crawlspace]
GARAK: Doctor, would you keep the noise down? I'm trying to work in here. 
BASHIR [OC]: Garak, how many transtator circuits have you got left? 
[Barracks]
GARAK [OC]: Three. 
BASHIR: Well, work fast, because pretty soon we're going to be up to our necks in Jem'Hadar. 
[Internment centre]
(Ikat'ika stops Worf as he crawls to a post.) 
IKAT'IKA: Enough, Klingon. You have proven your worth. 
MARTOK: Worf, you heard him. Enough. 
WORF: I will not yield. 
DEYOS: What are you waiting for? End this. 
IKAT'IKA: It's over. 
WORF: It is not over. 
DEYOS: You heard him. 
(Worf cannot stand, and Ikat'ika is breathing hard.) 
IKAT'IKA: I yield. 
DEYOS: You what? 
IKAT'IKA: I yield. I cannot defeat this Klingon. All I can do is kill him, and that no longer holds my interest. 
DEYOS: Shoot them both. 
[Crawlspace]
GARAK: Got it. 
[Internment centre]
(Just as Ikat'ika is killed, our heroes are beamed out.) 
[Runabout]
(Garak goes to the pilot's seat and Bashir checks on Worf.) 
BASHIR: Take him to one of the cabins in the back. I'll be with you as soon as I can. 
WORF: Garak, you did well. 
GARAK: So did you. 
BASHIR: Take us to maximum warp. We've got to get a message to the station. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: The Dominion fleet should be in visual range. 
SISKO: On screen. (empty space) Where are they? 
O'BRIEN: According to their warp signatures, they should be right there. 
SISKO: Some kind of cloaking device? 
O'BRIEN: I didn't know the Dominion had them. 
SISKO: Or the Cardassians, for that matter. 
O'BRIEN: I'm picking up additional warp signatures bearing one eight three mark nine seven, two four four mark one two, three oh two mark one three three. 
KIRA [OC]: Defiant to Ops. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
[Bridge]
KIRA: According to our sensor readings, there are Dominion ships all around us, but we can't see them or get any kind of targeting lock. 
[Ops]
SISKO: We're reading the same thing. 
O'BRIEN: They're everywhere. 
[Bridge]
DAX: What are your orders, Captain? 
[Ops]
SISKO: Chief, I need targets. 
O'BRIEN: I'm trying, but I can't get anything. We may have to wait for them to open fire and then. Captain, I'm receiving a priority one message from the Gamma Quadrant. It's Doctor Bashir. 
SISKO: Bashir? Computer, locate Doctor Bashir. 
COMPUTER: Doctor Bashir is not on the station. 
SISKO: What was his last known location? 
COMPUTER: Doctor Bashir's last known location was runabout pad E. 
SISKO: Sisko to Defiant. 
[Bridge]
KIRA: Go ahead. 
SISKO [OC]: Major, you have new orders. I want you to find the Yukon and destroy it 
[Ops]
SISKO: At any cost. Is that clear? 
[Bridge]
KIRA: Yes, sir. Commander. 
DAX: The Yukon is headed straight for the Bajoran sun. 
[Runabout]
(Bashir 2 switches on a device on a console when the ship shakes.) 
[Bridge]
DAX: Its shields are holding. 
KIRA: How can that be? 
DAX: Looks like someone's been doing some modifications to the Yukon. I'm also picking up large amounts of trilithium, tekasite, and protomatter on board. 
KIRA: A bomb. If it explodes inside the sun 
DAX: It could trigger a supernova. Wipe out the entire fleet, the station 
KIRA: And Bajor. We have to use the tractor beams. 
DAX: We're too far away. 
KIRA: Wanna bet? Take us to warp. 
DAX: Inside a solar system? 
KIRA: If we don't, there won't be a solar system left. 
(Zoom and they grab the runabout, yanking it away from the sun then letting go just before it goes KaBOOM. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: The runabout's been destroyed. 
SISKO: If the sun had gone nova, it would have wiped out the Dominion fleet too. Chief, scan for those warp signatures again. 
O'BRIEN: Captain 
SISKO: They're gone, aren't they? 
O'BRIEN: All I'm reading is normal background radiation. 
SISKO: The warp signatures must have been faked. The Dominion's real fleet never left Cardassian space. This was all an elaborate trap, an attempt to destroy the station and Bajor and cripple the Federation and Klingon fleets without ever firing a shot. Tell our friends out there to stand down. Armageddon will have to wait for another day. 
[Quark's]
GARAK: Ziyal? I told you I'd be back. 
(She runs into his arms.) 
ZIYAL: I never doubted it. 
[Infirmary]
O'BRIEN: Four weeks? Are you telling me I've been hanging around with a changeling for over a month? 
BASHIR: And you never even suspected it wasn't me? 
O'BRIEN: No. The worst part is, the clues were right in front of me. 
BASHIR: What clues? 
O'BRIEN: Well, for one thing, he was a lot easier to get along with. 
(While in the surgery section.) 
DAX: So I suppose this means you want your Klingon opera collection back. 
WORF: Intact. 
DAX: More or less. 
[Promenade - upper level]
GOWRON: Then it's settled. In light of the new treaty and the continued Dominion threat to the Alpha Quadrant, there will be a permanent Klingon military presence on this station. 
SISKO: But I choose the commander. 
GOWRON: Agreed. 
SISKO: Mister Worf thinks very highly of you, General. 
MARTOK: I think very highly of him. 
SISKO: Then I can't think of a better man for the job, if you'll take it. 
(Gowron nods.) 
MARTOK: I would be honoured. 
KIRA [OC]: Ops to Sisko. 
SISKO: Sisko here. 
KIRA [OC]: You're receiving an incoming message. It's from Dukat. 
[Captain's office]
DUKAT [on monitor]: Well, Captain, I must congratulate you. If that protomatter device had gone off inside the sun, well, the death toll would have been enormous. 
SISKO: And your daughter would've been one of the casualties. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Ziyal made her choice. As far as I'm concerned, she is no longer my daughter. 
SISKO: You know, Dukat, I thought you'd changed in the last five years. I see I was wrong. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: One man's villain is another man's hero, Captain. You should see the monument they're erecting in my honour at the gateway to the Imperial Plaza. 
SISKO: Is that why you sold out your people to the Dominion? For a monument? 
DUKAT [on monitor]: What I did I did to make Cardassia strong again. And mark my words, Captain, I succeeded. You may have escaped defeat this day but tomorrow 
SISKO: We will see about tomorrow. 
DUKAT [on monitor]: Yes, we will. 

