Episode Number: 433
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Armageddon Game
Armageddon Game
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 31 Jan, 1994
Chief Medical Officer's log, supplemental. Chief O'Brien and I are on board a T'Lani cruiser helping the T'Lani and the Kelleruns eliminate their stockpile of Harvesters, deadly biomechanical gene disrupters used by both sides in their centuries-long war 
[Laboratory]
BASHIR: Doctor Nydrom, how's our muon charge? 
NYDROM: Coming up to full power. 
BASHIR: Go ahead, please. 
(A woman puts a cylinder of orange stuff into the central machine - think Tardis console) 
BASHIR: Computer, this is harvester test sequence three hundred and seventy five. 
NYDROM: Muon generator now at full power. 
BASHIR: Once more unto the breach. I hope this works, because quite frankly I'm running out of ideas. 
NYDROM: It took ten years to perfect the harvesters. We've only been trying to eliminate them for a week. 
BASHIR: Is that all it's been? It feels like we've been working more than a month. I've never seen a nanobiogenic weapon so resistant to broad spectrum radiation. It's just a matter of finding the right combination of muon frequencies. It should be simple, but it's not. 
O'BRIEN: Doctor, start the sequence or we will be here a month. 
BASHIR: All right, Chief. I'm introducing the harvester into the genetic bath. Beginning muon influx now. 
(The stuff comes out green) 
BASHIR: Doctor, please check for any gene-disrupter phasing. 
NYDROM: The genetic integrity of the sample is holding steady. I'm not reading any genetic disruption at all. 
BASHIR: Are you sure? Check the sequence again. 
NYDROM: The results are identical. 
O'BRIEN: What? It worked, didn't it? Would somebody say something? 
BASHIR: It worked all right. 
NYDROM: The harvesters have been destroyed. 
(Sharat enters - a different race to Nydrom) 
SHARAT: Good news, I take it. 
NYDROM: Ambassador Sharat, I'm pleased to inform you that we have found a way to eliminate the harvesters. 
SHARAT: Excellent. Well done. I knew if our people stopped killing each other and worked together, we could put an end to these horrible weapons. This is a symbol of the new future we have embarked upon. 
NYDROM: Yes. And let's not forget, we couldn't have done it without the help of our friends from the Federation. 
SHARAT: At first we had questioned Doctor Nydrom's decision to bring in outside help. Obviously it was the right thing to do. We're all very grateful for your assistance. 
BASHIR: It was our pleasure, I assure you. 
SHARAT: But eliminating the harvesters is only half the task. We must make certain all scientific data concerned with them is wiped out as well. 
O'BRIEN: I've purged every file in the T'Lani and Kellerun data banks pertaining to harvesters. If anyone gets it in their head to build these things again, they'll have to start from scratch. 
NYDROM: Then it's finished. 
SHARAT: Not quite. We shouldn't rest until the entire Kellerun and T'Lani supply of harvesters has been destroyed. 
BASHIR: We will begin immediately. 
(There are stacks and stacks of them.) 
[Commander's office]
KIRA [OC]: Commander, I have Doctor Bashir for you on subspace. 
SISKO: In here. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: Commander, we have some good news to report. 
SISKO: I've already heard. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: You have? 
SISKO: Yes. I received a message from both the T'Lani and Kellerun ambassadors, informing me of your success in neutralising the harvesters. Congratulations, gentlemen. 
O'BRIEN [on monitor]: Thank you, sir, but Doctor here deserves the bulk of the credit. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: Actually, it was a team effort 
O'BRIEN [on monitor]: The Doctor's just being modest, sir. He was the one who came up with muon rays as a possible solution. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: Luckily, it worked. 
SISKO: When can we expect you back? 
O'BRIEN [on monitor]: Soon, I hope. 
SISKO: The ambassador said something about a celebration on T'Lani Prime. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: Yes, it's set for tonight, but the Chief is quite anxious to return back to the station. 
O'BRIEN [on monitor]: It's been a long week. 
SISKO: Still, I think we can spare you for another day. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: I agree. If that's okay with you, Chief. 
O'BRIEN [on monitor]: I suppose another day won't kill me. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: That's the spirit. 
SISKO: Then we'll expect you back day after tomorrow. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: Enjoy yourselves, gentlemen. You've earned it. 
[Laboratory]
NYDROM: The last cylinder. I believe that you should have the honour, Doctor. 
BASHIR: My pleasure. 
NYDROM: It's ironic, isn't it, that the war would finally come to an end up here, above T'Lani Three, a planet whose entire population was decimated by harvesters. I hope this will be a lasting peace. 
(Two armed men from the same race as Sharat enter) 
NYDROM: What is this? Weapons aren't allowed up here. 
(He gets shot. Everyone dives for cover as the gunfire continues. The scientists are massacred, O'Brien tackles the one about to shoot Bashir and gets his weapon. Bashir goes for the other one, and a shot blows up the console with the harvester cylinder in it. A drop of stuff lands on O'Brien's arm. Bashir knocks the man out and they check the others. O'Brien locks down the doors.) 
BASHIR: They're all dead. 
O'BRIEN: We will be, too, if we don't get out of here. O'Brien to Ganges. Computer, activate remote transporter sequence. O'Brien to Ganges. 
BASHIR: They must be jamming communications with the runabout. 
(Weapons fire on the other side of the door.) 
O'BRIEN: We sure as hell can't stay here. We'll have to beam down to the surface. 
BASHIR: But they'll be able to follow us. 
O'BRIEN: I'm programming the system to overload thirty seconds after we transport. Let's go. 
[Quark's]
SISKO: I'll have a cup of Alterian chowder, uttaberry crepes, and a slice of 
KIRA [OC]: Kira to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead, Major. 
KIRA [OC]: The T'Lani and Kellerun ambassadors have just arrived on the station. They're asking to see you. 
SISKO: Are O'Brien and Bashir with them? 
KIRA [OC]: No, Commander. And the ambassadors refuse to speak to anyone but you. 
SISKO: Show them to my office. I'll be right there. 
KIRA [OC]: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: I'll have to cancel that order. 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: Are you saying both of my officers are dead? 
E'TYSHRA: (female, same race as Nydrom) Along with some of our greatest scientists. 
SHARAT: We're sorry you had to share in our misfortune. 
SISKO: What happened? 
E'TYSHRA: It was 
SHARAT: It was a terrible accident. It appears one of your officers, a Chief O'Brien I believe, inadvertently tripped a security device. A lethal pulse of radiation flooded the room, killing everyone. 
E'TYSHRA: Ambassador Sharat transported off the ship just minutes before the accident occurred. 
SISKO: This security device 
E'TYSHRA: It was built into the lab's computers decades ago. We didn't even know it existed. 
SISKO: If there were no survivors, how do you know that Chief O'Brien caused the accident? 
SHARAT: I was able to return to the ship almost immediately after the accident. The first thing I did was to check the internal security sensors. They recorded the entire incident. We assumed you'd want to see for yourself. 
SISKO: Thank you. 
E'TYSHRA: Commander, I just want you to know we don't blame Chief O'Brien for what happened. 
SHARAT: On the contrary, both he and Doctor Bashir will always be considered heroes to both the Kellerun and the T'Lani. Without their help, we never could have destroyed the harvesters. 
E'TYSHRA: Please extend our sympathies to their families. 
SISKO: I'll do that. 
[Building]
(In a well-bombed city is a stout ruin, with horizontal slits for windows and good structural bracing. It also has barrels and boxes.) 
BASHIR: Chief! Chief, in here. 
O'BRIEN: Wait. Don't touch anything. 
BASHIR: Why not? There's food and medical supplies. 
O'BRIEN: They could be booby-trapped. The Cardassians used to rig the supplies they left behind with pressure grenades. I've seen more than one soldier permanently lose his appetite that way. 
BASHIR: Well, did you find anything? 
O'BRIEN: It looks all right. 
BASHIR: Good. At least we won't starve. Here. 
O'BRIEN: No. 
BASHIR: Why not, Chief? I thought you loved military rations. 
O'BRIEN: Federation rations. I've had enough T'Lani food this past week to last me a lifetime. 
BASHIR: Well, we've got to keep our strength up. We're going to have to find some way of warning the T'Lani the Kelleruns have broken the treaty. 
O'BRIEN: I still can't figure it. Why would the Kelleruns wait till the harvesters were destroyed before they made their move? 
BASHIR: Maybe they didn't ha d over all the harvesters for destruction. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe they're convinced they can defeat the T'Lani with conventional weapons. 
BASHIR: I suppose, but that might mean continuing the war for another hundred years. Well, whatever the reason, we'd better keep moving. 
O'BRIEN: Wait. Listen to me, Julian. The Kelleruns are going to expect us to be on the move. If we start running, their sensors'll pick us up before we've gone a kilometre. If we stay still maybe, just maybe, it'll take them longer to find us. The way I see it, we have only one chance to survive this thing that's to stay alive long enough for Commander Sisko to find us. 
BASHIR: But that won't be for at least another day. He still thinks we're celebrating on T'Lani Prime. 
O'BRIEN: I said it was our only chance, I didn't say it was a good one. (some computer equipment) What have we here? Looks like some kind of comm. system. Maybe we can contact the T'Lani from here. 
BASHIR: Do you think you can get it working? 
O'BRIEN: I'll have to open it up, see if there's a backup power supply. Why don't you take a seat, Doctor? 
BASHIR: I thought maybe I could help. I took the engineering extension courses at Starfleet Medical. 
O'BRIEN: Extension courses? 
BASHIR: They were actually quite informative. 
O'BRIEN: Julian, do you really want to help? 
BASHIR: Yes. 
O'BRIEN: Then let me do my job. 
BASHIR: Of course. I'll inventory the supplies. 
O'BRIEN: Fine. Why don't you do that. 
[Commander's office]
(Watching the sensor recording - as the last canister brought in as O'Brien is by a panel with a mug of coffee) 
NYDROM [on screen]: The last cylinder. I believe you should have the honour, Doctor. 
BASHIR [on screen]: My pleasure. 
(Cylinder goes down and up) 
NYDROM [on screen]: The harvesters have been destroyed. We must make certain that all records of their existence are wiped out. 
O'BRIEN [on screen]: I've purged every file in the T'Lani and Kellerun data banks pertaining to the harvesters. If anyone gets it in their head to build these things again, they'll have to start from scratch. 
NYDROM [on screen]: Then it's finished. 
(O'Brien takes a drink from his mug) 
O'BRIEN [on screen]: Hold on, what's this? 
BASHIR [on screen]: Chief? 
O'BRIEN [on screen]: I don't know. Closing the last file seems to have activated some kind of security programme. It looks like it was part of the original operating system. I can't shut it down. Do you know anything about this? 
NYDROM [on screen]: No. Maybe you should try cutting the power. 
O'BRIEN [on screen]: It's not responding 
(And everyone on screen vanishes) 
ODO: I've heard of security weapons like this. A radiation pulse that vaporises any intruder who doesn't enter the proper code. 
KIRA: I'm surprised the Chief didn't detect it. 
DAX: It must've been buried very deep in the system. 
KIRA: I'd like to talk to the chief of security for that ship. 
ODO: So would I. 
SISKO: Remember, they lost people too. 
KIRA: The T'Lani were responsible for O'Brien's and Bashir's safety. They should have known about that device and deactivated it. 
SISKO: That'll do, Major. I'd like for you to contact Bajoran medical officials. We'll need a doctor to be temporarily assigned to the station until Starfleet can send us a replacement for Doctor Bashir. Dax, inform Starfleet of the accident. Tell them we'll need a new medical officer and a new chief of operations. 
DAX: Would you like me to go with you to see Mrs O'Brien? 
SISKO: No, I'll take care of it. Find out how I can contact Julian's family. Major, inform the crew we'll be holding a memorial service tomorrow evening at eighteen hundred hours. 
KIRA: Yes, sir. 
SISKO: All right, people. I know the next few days are going to be hard, but we all have jobs to do. Dismissed. 
[Building]
BASHIR: So, having any luck? 
O'BRIEN: I wish you'd stop asking me that. 
BASHIR: I'm sorry. It's just all this standing around. I'm used to doing something constructive. 
O'BRIEN: Just keep your eyes open for any Kellerun soldiers. 
BASHIR: Don't worry, I will. 
O'BRIEN: It's such a mess in here. 
BASHIR: You'll make it work, Chief. It's the kind of challenge you live for. You know, I was looking forward to the celebrations on T'Lani Prime. I don't know if you'd noticed, but T'Lani women are quite attractive. 
O'BRIEN: I'm not blind, you know. 
BASHIR: Of course not. But you are married. 
O'BRIEN: Just because you're married doesn't mean you stop looking at women. 
BASHIR: Just as long as you don't let your wife see you look. For me, tonight's celebrations would have been an adventure. The most you could have hoped for was a good meal. 
O'BRIEN: Women. That's all you ever think about 
BASHIR: No, it isn't. Though I do think about them a lot. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, well, one of these days you'll fall in love with one. 
BASHIR: I did once. 
O'BRIEN: Not work out? 
BASHIR: Not quite. Close. I don't know. Somehow marriage just doesn't seem fair. 
O'BRIEN: Fair? 
BASHIR: Fair to them. I mean, look at us. Our lives are constantly in danger. There's enough to worry about without worrying about the wife and kids at home worrying about us. I'm sorry, Chief. I just feel that way. A lot of career officers feel that way. 
O'BRIEN: Well, you career officers don't know what you're missing. 
BASHIR: Really? That may be so. I just look at you and Mrs O'Brien and I 
O'BRIEN: What about me and Mrs O'Brien? 
BASHIR: Nothing. 
O'BRIEN: What? 
BASHIR: Nothing. Absolutely nothing. It's no secret that your assignment to this station hasn't been conducive to your marriage. 
O'BRIEN: Say that again? 
BASHIR: Why don't we just forget it. 
O'BRIEN: That's the first intelligent thing you've said since we got here. 
(O'Brien gets a blanket from the supplies and puts it over his shoulders) 
BASHIR: Are you cold? 
O'BRIEN: Yes. Aren't you? 
BASHIR: No. Actually it's quite warm in here. You're looking a little pale. 
O'BRIEN: I'm fine. 
(Bashir scans him.) 
BASHIR: Your blood pressure's low. You're running a fever. You'd better sit down. 
O'BRIEN: I don't want to sitting down. I've got work to do. 
BASHIR: Roll up your sleeve. 
O'BRIEN: Why? 
BASHIR: Do it. Please. 
(There's a nasty lesion on the skin) 
BASHIR: You were behind the genetic bath when it shattered, weren't you? 
O'BRIEN: You have something to tell me, Doctor? 
BASHIR: You've been infected by the harvesters. 
[O'Brien's quarters]
KEIKO: Come in. 
(Sisko enters) 
KEIKO: Commander Sisko. 
SISKO: Keiko. 
KEIKO: Something's happened to Miles. 
SISKO: There was an accident. Both your husband and Doctor Bashir were involved. 
KEIKO: They're dead. 
SISKO: I'm sorry. 
KEIKO: Tell me what happened. 
SISKO: The T'Lani security sensors recorded the entire incident. 
KEIKO: I want to see it. 
SISKO: I'll have it sent to you. Miles was a fine officer and a fine man. I'll miss him. 
KEIKO: Thank you, Commander. I would like to be alone now. 
SISKO: If there's anything you need, just let me know. 
[Building]
(O'Brien is still trying to fix the comm. device.) 
BASHIR: Chief? 
O'BRIEN: It's my eyes. They're getting fuzzy. 
BASHIR: You'd better sit down. I'll take over from here. 
O'BRIEN: What makes you think you can fix this? 
BASHIR: Because you're going to talk me through it. Now, take a seat. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe. Just for a minute. Or two. 
BASHIR: Now, tell me where you left off. 
O'BRIEN: You see the dark blue coil in the upper right hand corner? 
BASHIR: No. 
O'BRIEN: It's there, beside the green cylinder. Just below it. 
BASHIR: Yes, I see it. 
O'BRIEN: You have to lock the base of the coil into the tiny receptor just below it. 
[Quark's cafe]
DAX: You know, I just remembered I still have Julian's medical school diaries. 
KIRA: He let you read them? 
DAX: He felt they would help me understand him better. 
KIRA: How? By reading about all the women he went out with? 
DAX: That's not what they're not about. When he gave them to me, he told me that they were about his innermost thoughts, his struggle to graduate top of his class, his dream of a career in Starfleet, his constant fear of failure. 
KIRA: Really? And did you understand him better? 
DAX: I never got around to reading them. I suppose I should send them to his parents. 
KIRA: You could keep them. 
DAX: Really? 
KIRA: I think he'd like that. He cared a great deal about you. 
DAX: I know. I cared about him, too. 
(Quark brings drinks) 
QUARK: These are on the house. 
KIRA: How come? 
QUARK: I thought we'd have a toast to the memory of Chief O'Brien and Doctor Bashir. 
DAX: That's very thoughtful, Quark. 
QUARK: I can be thoughtful. To our dear departed comrades. We may have had our differences, but I'll say this for them, and it's no higher tribute I can think of. They were good customers. They always paid their bar bills on time. 
KIRA: That's it? 
QUARK: I'm not done yet. At times like these I'm reminded of the Fifty Seventh Rule of Acquisition. Good customers are as rare as latinum. Treasure them. 
[Ops]
KIRA: Mrs. O'Brien? 
KEIKO: Major, I need to see Commander Sisko. It's very important. 
KIRA: I'll tell him you're here. I just wanted you to know how sorry I am. How sorry we all are. 
KEIKO: Thank you. 
[Commander's office]
O'BRIEN [on monitor]: If anyone gets it in their head to build these things again 
KEIKO: Watch. It's coming up in just a few seconds. 
NYDROM [on monitor]: Then it's finished. 
KEIKO: Computer, freeze image. 
KEIKO: There. Do you see it? 
SISKO: I see the Chief drinking coffee. 
KEIKO: Exactly. Now look at the time index. 
(0015:28:33:12.) 
KIRA: Fifteen hundred hours. 
KEIKO: That's right. Late afternoon. Miles never drank coffee late in the afternoon. It keeps him up all night. 
SISKO: Maybe he made an exception this time. Working long hours, under a lot of stress. 
KEIKO: I know my husband. He never drinks coffee late in the day. 
KIRA: Maybe he isn't drinking coffee. Maybe it's tea. 
KEIKO: I checked the data clip. It contained a spectroscopic analysis. The liquid in Miles' cup consisted of vegetable-based oils and caffeine. It's coffee all right. 
SISKO: You're suggesting someone tampered with this recording? 
KEIKO: Yes, I am. And I want to know the reason why. 
SISKO: Lieutenant, when were you planning on bringing the Ganges back from T'Lani Three? 
DAX: Tomorrow. 
SISKO: I don't see any reason to wait, do you? 
DAX: I'll leave right away. 
SISKO: Good. I'll come with you. Mrs O'Brien, if this recording has been altered, we'll find out why. 
[Building]
BASHIR: You were right, Chief. The contacts on the subprocessor are corroded. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah. They need to be cleaned. 
BASHIR: I think there are some sterile pads in the med kit. Here we go. 
(He rubs at the component) 
BASHIR: Don't leave me, Chief. I still need you. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. I'm not going anywhere. So who was she? 
BASHIR: Who? 
O'BRIEN: (imitating Bashir) Not quite close. 
BASHIR: Palis. Palis Delon. She was a dancer, a ballerina. She had the most exquisite feet. I'm serious. It's very important for a dancer to have good arches. She was gorgeous, not to mention brilliant. I used to watch her on stage. I couldn't believe how anyone could be so graceful. 
O'BRIEN: And she was crazy about you? 
BASHIR: We were crazy about each other. I used to think, Julian, you lucky devil. You've found the perfect woman. We used to finish each other's thoughts. There. (the component) What do you think? 
O'BRIEN: Good, good. Put it back in the comm. panel. 
(Lights flicker as it comes to life.) 
BASHIR: Looks like we have some power, anyway. Still no response from the transmitter, though. 
O'BRIEN: Try retuning the RF oscillators. So what happened with you and Palis? 
BASHIR: What happened is I graduated. Her father was the top administrator at a medical complex in Paris. He offered me a job, promised I'd be Chief of Surgery within five years 
O'BRIEN: But you would have to give up your Starfleet career. 
BASHIR: I can't tell you how close I came. But, here I am. 
O'BRIEN: You made your choice. 
BASHIR: Yeah. Sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night and I think to myself, will I ever find anyone that wonderful again? The oscillator's working, but the frequency is still fluctuating. 
O'BRIEN: Let me take a look. Argh. 
BASHIR: What is it? 
O'BRIEN: It's my legs. I can't feel them. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
DAX: We're approaching T'Lani Three. Establishing a synchronous orbit along side the Ganges. 
SISKO: Open a channel to the T'Lani cruiser. 
E'TYSHRA [on monitor]: Commander Sisko. What a pleasant surprise. I take it you're here for your runabout? 
SISKO: That's correct. 
E'TYSHRA [on monitor]: We were about to leave for the memorial service on T'Lani Prime. You're welcome to accompany us. 
SISKO: Perhaps we will. But first I'd like to see for myself where the accident took place. 
E'TYSHRA [on monitor]: Of course. 
DAX: While you're on the cruiser, I think I'll beam over to the Ganges and take a look around. 
SISKO: Good idea. 
[Building]
BASHIR: Chief! Chief, it's working. The signal's very faint 
O'BRIEN: You'll have to switch to a higher carrier frequency. Reset the actuators on the chamber's coil. 
BASHIR: That's better. It's still pretty weak though. I'm sending a distress signal. It's set to repeat every two minutes. Let's hope the T'Lani find us before the Kellerun do. 
O'BRIEN: They'd better get here soon. 
BASHIR: Don't worry, Chief I'm going to get you home. 
O'BRIEN: In a box, maybe. 
BASHIR: Nonsense. Don't go giving up on me now. 
O'BRIEN: I'm not giving up, I'm dying. Listen to me, Julian. You must tell Keiko and Molly 
BASHIR: You'll tell them yourself. 
O'BRIEN: You were wrong, you know, about marriage. 
BASHIR: Whatever you say, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Listen to me, Julian. You're always talking about adventure. Ha, adventure! Marriage is the greatest adventure of them all. It's filled with pitfalls and setbacks and mistakes, but it's a journey worth taking because you take it together. I know Keiko's been unhappy about us coming to the station. We still argue about it. But that's all right, because at the end of the day, we both know we love each other. 
BASHIR: Chief. 
O'BRIEN: That's all that matters. 
BASHIR: Chief, you'd better get some rest. The T'Lani will be here soon. 
[Laboratory]
(Sisko is walking around with a tricorder) 
SISKO: I see there's still some residual traces of the radiation pulse.
E'TYSHRA: That's to be expected, given the pulse's intensity, but it poses no danger. 
SISKO: Tell me, Ambassador. Have you been able to learn any thing else about the fail-safe device that caused the accident? 
E'TYSHRA: Not yet, Commander, but we're working on it. 
SISKO: It was Ambassador Sharat who brought you the data clip? 
E'TYSHRA: That's right. 
SISKO: I suppose he showed it to you as soon as you arrived? 
E'TYSHRA: Of course. 
SISKO: Could the clip have been altered before you saw it? 
E'TYSHRA: Why would Ambassador Sharat alter the data clip? 
SISKO: I have no idea. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Sisko. 
SISKO: Sisko. 
DAX [OC]: Commander, when you're through there, could you join me on the Ganges? 
SISKO: Yes. I'll be here a few more minutes. 
E'TYSHRA: Commander, the T'Lani and Kellerun have finally made peace. That peace cannot survive unless both sides trust each other. 
[Runabout Ganges]
(Sisko beams in) 
SISKO: What have you got, Dax? 
DAX: It looks like someone erased five seconds from the Ganges's computer log. 
SISKO: Show me. 
DAX: At first I thought it was just some kind of power fluctuation, but when I checked the log's memory core it showed traces of a remote transport command. 
SISKO: Did you find any indication of transporter activity at that time? 
DAX: No. 
SISKO: And you're saying somebody erased it later on? 
DAX: Look at the time index when the call for transport came in. 
SISKO: Fifteen thirty four. That's a full three minutes after the accident on the T'Lani cruiser. 
DAX: Which means if either Chief O'Brien or Julian made that request 
SISKO: They would've been alive after the fail-safe device went off. Good work, Lieutenant. 
[Building]
(O'Brien is coughing) 
BASHIR: Chief! Chief! Don't leave me now. Breathe. That's better. Now it you're doing it. 
(Bashir gives him a hypo) 
O'BRIEN: Tell me, Julian, ever talk to that ballerina of yours? 
BASHIR: Not since I left Earth. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe you should. 
BASHIR: Well, maybe one day I will. 
(Footsteps outside, then E'Tyshra enters) 
BASHIR: Ambassador E'Tyshra, am I glad to see you. Chief O'Brien was infected by the harvesters when the Kelleruns attacked your ship. They killed all of the scientists. 
(Enter Sharat) 
SHARAT: Not all of them. 
BASHIR: You're too late, Sharat. 
E'TYSHRA: No, Doctor. He's right on time. 
BASHIR: But why kill Nydrom and the others? 
E'TYSHRA: To ensure that the peace agreement between our two races will last. 
BASHIR: But we'd already destroyed the harvesters. There was no reason for more killings, unless 
SHARAT: It's not enough to simply destroy the harvesters. We have to be sure no one can ever recreate them. 
E'TYSHRA: The only way to do that was to eliminate everyone who possessed such knowledge, including the two of you. 
BASHIR: But we have no use for such horrible weapons. 
SHARAT: As long as the knowledge exists, there's a danger it may be used. That's a risk we refuse to live with. 
E'TYSHRA: I truly am sorry, Doctor, but at least you have the consolation of knowing your deaths will be for a noble cause. 
(The accompanying soldiers line up to shoot Bashir.) 
O'BRIEN: Wait. 
E'TYSHRA: Let him speak. 
O'BRIEN: Help me up. I want to die on my feet. 
BASHIR: I'm sorry I didn't get us home, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: You did your best. It's been an honour serving with you. 
BASHIR: Why thank you, Chief. That means a lot. 
(and they are beamed out) 
[Runabout Ganges]
BASHIR: Commander, am I glad to see you. Chief O'Brien going to be dead within the hour if we don't get him back to the station. 
SISKO: What happened? 
BASHIR: He was exposed to the harvesters. That should stabilise him for now. 
DAX: They told us you were both dead, Julian. 
BASHIR: We would have been, if the T'Lani and Kelleruns had had their way. They're killing everyone involved in the harvesters project. 
DAX: The T'Lani cruiser's coming this way. They're hailing us. 
SISKO: Ignore them. Send a general distress signal on all Federation subspace frequencies. 
DAX: They're blocking all subspace communications with a broadband inversion. They're hailing us again. 
SISKO: Is the inversion field affecting sensors as well? 
DAX: All short range sensors are useless. 
SISKO: Which means theirs are useless too. 
(One runabout heads off, and the cruiser chases it) 
[Cruiser Bridge]
JAKIN: Ambassador, Commander Sisko is attempting to escape. We are in pursuit. 
SHARAT: Can we overtake them? 
E'TYSHRA: Their runabout is no match for this ship. Fire a warning shot. 
JAKIN: Confirmed. Commander Sisko is hailing us. 
E'TYSHRA: I thought he would. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: By firing on this vessel, you've committed an act of war against the Federation. 
E'TYSHRA: Commander, we have no quarrel with the Federation or with you, but we must insist you turn over Doctor Bashir and Chief O'Brien. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: Why? So you can murder them? 
SHARAT: Unfortunately, Commander, your officers are the only two people left who've seen the data concerning the development of the harvesters. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: They have no intention of using that knowledge. You have my word 
SHARAT: Their intentions are irrelevant. The fact is, the threat remains as long as the knowledge exists. 
E'TYSHRA: Commander, I know this is painful for you. It wasn't easy for us to order the deaths of our own people, but it is necessary. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: And if I refuse to turn them over? 
E'TYSHRA: You can't outrun us and you can't fight us. We can destroy your runabout at any time. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: Lieutenant Dax and I have no knowledge of the harvesters. Are you willing to kill us too? 
SHARAT: We'll do whatever we have to do to ensure our safety. 
E'TYSHRA: Commander, you are running out of options. You have one minute to turn over Doctor Bashir and Chief O'Brien 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: You want them, you're going to have to take us all. 
(Transmission ends) 
SHARAT: He leaves us no choice. 
JAKIN: The runabout is turning. It's heading back in our direction. 
E'TYSHRA: Full stop. 
JAKIN: He's preparing to fire. 
E'TYSHRA: Employ shields. 
JAKIN: Shields employed. 
E'TYSHRA: Put the runabout on screen. 
SHARAT: He must know his phasers can't hurt us. 
JAKIN: He's aiming his vessel straight for us. 
SHARAT: The man must be crazy. 
E'TYSHRA: Fire phasers. 
(KaBOOM) 
SHARAT: It's over. 
E'TYSHRA: Head back to T'Lani Three. Prepare to take the other runabout in tow. 
JAKIN: Ambassador, sensors indicate the other runabout is no longer in orbit. 
E'TYSHRA: Then where is it? 
JAKIN: I don't know. It's gone. 
SHARAT: It can't just have disappeared. 
JAKIN: I'm picking up a warp signature. 
E'TYSHRA: Sisko. Maybe he and the others weren't on that runabout we destroyed. 
JAKIN: They could have transported to the other runabout while our sensors were down. 
E'TYSHRA: And then piloted the first ship by remote navigation. 
SHARAT: But we saw them die. 
E'TYSHRA: Did we? 
[Infirmary]
(O'Brien is looking at a mug with flowers on it.) 
O'BRIEN: What's this? 
KEIKO: Something Molly made for you. She painted it herself. 
O'BRIEN: It's lovely. She's really talented. 
BASHIR: How's my patient? 
O'BRIEN: Better. Can I go home now? 
BASHIR: You should be out of here by tomorrow. I just wanted to let you to know how much I appreciated what you said back on T'Lani Three. 
O'BRIEN: What did I say? 
BASHIR: That it was an honour serving with me. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, right. 
BASHIR: And I'd like to return the compliment, if I may. It's been an honour serving with you, too, Chief. You know, Mrs O'Brien, they say when two people face death together, it creates a bond that cannot be broken. I never believed that until I was 
O'BRIEN: Julian. 
BASHIR: Hmm? Oh, er, of course. You'd like to be alone. I understand. 
(Bashir leaves) 
KEIKO: Miles, he saved your life, you know. 
O'BRIEN: He's never going to let me forget it. 
KEIKO: So what was it like spending all that time alone with him? 
O'BRIEN: It was hell. You can see for yourself the man never stops talking. You know, I wouldn't mind a cup of coffee right now. 
KEIKO: Miles, you never drink coffee in the afternoon. 
O'BRIEN: Sure I do. 
KEIKO: You do? 

