Episode Number: 424
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Invasive Procedures
Invasive Procedures
Stardate: 47182.1
Original Airdate: 18 Oct, 1993
Station log, stardate 47182.1. DS-Nine has been temporarily evacuated due to a violent plasma disruption. Until the disturbance ends, we'll be forced to maintain the station with a skeleton crew. 
[Ops]
SISKO: How are we holding up? 
KIRA: So far, so good. I'll say one thing for the Cardassians, they built this place to last. 
DAX: Just in case it doesn't, I've got the Orinoco prepped and ready at pad C. 
SISKO: Any word from Chief O'Brien? 
DAX: He and Odo checked in about an hour ago. They sealed off the airlocks in the upper and lower pylons and were moving on to the docking ring. 
SISKO: Sisko to O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien here. 
SISKO: What's your 
[Corridor]
SISKO [OC]: Status, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: Almost done, Commander. We've sealed all the airlocks on levels twenty one, twenty two and twenty three, but we still have to check the outer bulkheads to make sure there hasn't been any crystallisation 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN [OC]: From the plasma discharges. It shouldn't take too long. 
[Corridor]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien out. 
(Round a corner) 
ODO: Did you hear that? 
O'BRIEN: Hear what? 
ODO: I could've sworn I heard something. 
(Odo opens an airlock door.) 
O'BRIEN: Quark. 
(Quark is sitting cross-legged in an attitude of meditation or prayer) 
ODO: What are you doing here? You're under strict orders from Sisko to stay in the bar. 
QUARK: I'm not a prisoner, Odo. I volunteered to stay and help you protect the station. 
ODO: The only reason you volunteered is because there wasn't any room on the evacuation shuttles for six hundred bars of gold-pressed latinum. Which still doesn't explain what you're doing out here in the docking ring. 
QUARK: I was saying goodbye to my brother. 
ODO: Your brother? His shuttle left three hours ago. 
QUARK: Funny, it's only been three hours and I'm already lost without him. 
ODO: Oh, please. Don't try to tell me you've been sitting out here all this time pining for Rom. 
QUARK: I know, I know. He couldn't find a cup of water if you dropped him in a lake, but even if he is an idiot, he's still my brother.
ODO: And you'd betray him in a second if it suited your interests. 
QUARK: That doesn't mean I don't love him. Chief, do you have any brothers? 
O'BRIEN: As a matter of fact, I have two. 
QUARK: And did you ever have to say goodbye to them? 
O'BRIEN: Sure, when I joined Starfleet. 
QUARK: And did it bring a tear to your eye? 
O'BRIEN: I suppose so. 
QUARK: Try explaining that to him. 
(Quark leaves, Odo closes the airlock door and we get a look at a device flashing away to itself.) 
[Ops]
DAX: The storm's intensity is up thirty-seven percent. 
KIRA: Is there any way of telling how long it'll last? 
DAX: Your guess is as good as mine. Plasma storms are extremely rare. But look at the bright side, this gives us a great opportunity to study one. 
KIRA: Oh, lucky us. 
BASHIR: You should see the view from the Promenade. It's simply amazing. 
SISKO: I assume the Promenade is secure. 
BASHIR: Oh, yes, sir. I've struck the sails and battened the hatches, so to speak. 
DAX: Benjamin, you'd better look at this. I'm detecting a small vessel headed this way at one quarter impulse. 
KIRA: They're hailing us. 
SISKO: On screen. 
KIRA: I can't get a visual. 
VERAD [OC]: This is the cargo ship Ekina. We've been caught by the storm. Our engines have been severely damaged. We need emergency assistance. Can you read me? Repeat, this is the cargo ship Ekina 
KIRA: I've lost it. 
SISKO: Can we get a transporter lock on the crew? 
KIRA: There's too much interference. 
SISKO: Engage the tractor beam. Bring them into the closest docking bay. 
BASHIR: There might be casualties. I'll get down to the Infirmary. 
SISKO: Good idea. Sisko to O'Brien. 
[Promenade]
O'BRIEN: O'Brien here. 
SISKO [OC]: Chief, we've got some storm victims coming into docking bay five. They may be in need of assistance. 
O'BRIEN: I'll have to release the emergency seal on the airlock before they can board the station. On my way. 
[Airlock]
O'BRIEN: Stand clear. 
(Smoke, and a woman comes out) 
O'BRIEN: Are you all right? Is anyone hurt? 
T'KAR: Not yet. 
(A Klingon pushes O'Brien against a bulkhead, another points his disrupter at Odo. Everyone say Hi! to Tim Russ, soon to be Tuvok of Voyager.) 
O'BRIEN: What the hell do you think you're doing? 
T'KAR: No questions. 
O'BRIEN: This is a nice way to showing your gratitude. We just saved your lives out there. 
T'KAR: You see? The ever-helpful Federation. So predictable. 
O'BRIEN: Listen, friend, in case you haven't heard the Federation and the Klingon Empire are allies now. 
T'KAR: The Empire is governed by doddering fools and frightened old women who aren't worthy of the name Klingon. Mareel, the comm. badge. 
MAREEL: (the woman) This one must be the shape-shifter. 
YETO: (the other Klingon) Go on. What are you waiting for? 
(Verad puts a box on the floor and opens it.) 
O'BRIEN: You're a Trill. 
T'KAR: You, shifter. Inside. 
ODO: And what if I refuse? 
VERAD: Please, do as he says and no one will get hurt. 
T'KAR: Now. Or this one dies. 
(Yeto seals liquid Odo in the box and hands it to Mareel.) 
T'KAR: Let's go, ally. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: Chief, were there any casualties? 
T'KAR: That depends on you. 
BASHIR: What's this is all about? 
(Yeto takes Bashir's comm. badge) 
T'KAR: Yeto, get the Ferengi. Any more questions? 
VERAD: Don't hurt him. 
T'KAR: Mareel, the box. Put it in your stasis chamber. Now. Or I will destroy it. 
BASHIR: Is that supposed to be some kind of threat? 
O'BRIEN: They've got Odo in there. 
BASHIR: I see. Well, in that case. 
[Ops]
DAX: I'm still not getting a response from O'Brien or Odo. 
SISKO: Run a level three security scan. 
T'KAR: Don't bother. 
VERAD: Please take your hands away from the controls. 
T'KAR: Now! (fires his disrupter at the ceiling) Get to the centre of the room. 
SISKO: Do as he says. 
MAREEL: Don't worry, Verad. It's going to be all right. 
(Mareel takes the comm. badges) 
T'KAR: (to O'Brien and Bashir) Get with the others. Move. Your turn, little man. 
VERAD: Don't forget to disable the backups as well as the primary systems. 
O'BRIEN: It's my fault, Commander. They caught us by surprise. Somehow they must have neutralised the security systems in the docking ring. 
SISKO: How did they manage that? 
O'BRIEN: I'm not sure, but I've got a pretty good idea. We ran across Quark in an airlock a little while ago. 
KIRA: When this is over, Quark and I are going to have a little talk. 
(Dax is staring at Verad) 
SISKO: Do you know him? 
[Quark's]
QUARK: Ah, Yeto. It's such a pleasure doing business with Klingons. You're so punctual. I see that your ship was rescued according to plan. I've got your merchandise right here but I don't see any latinum. 
YETO: You Ferengi, you think you're so clever but you're stupid. 
QUARK: Now, now. There's no need for name calling. If you don't want these liquid data chains, I'm sure I can line up dozens of other buyers. 
YETO: Go right ahead. 
QUARK: Yeto, you expect me to believe you've come all this way, braved the storm, just to tell me that the deal is off? 
YETO: Stupid Ferengi. 
[Ops]
T'KAR: I said no one moves. 
SISKO: I'm commander of this station. What is your business here? 
T'KAR: You'll have to ask my employer. 
VERAD: I'm, I'm sorry about this. If everyone would just cooperate, I promise it will all be over soon. 
SISKO: What will be over soon? 
QUARK: This is an outrage. I demand to be released at once. 
YETO: Enough of your whining. 
QUARK: Who are these people? What do they want from us? 
KIRA: Funny, I was about to ask you that question. 
MAREEL: That's enough. 
SISKO: I agree. Now tell me what you want here. 
VERAD: Dax. I want Dax. 
SISKO: She's not going anywhere with you. 
VERAD: No, no. I don't want the girl. I only want what is rightfully mine. What should have been mine years ago. I want Dax. 
DAX: The symbiont, Benjamin. He's come to steal my symbiont. 
BASHIR: You can't remove Jadzia's symbiont. If you do, she'll die. 
SISKO: He knows that, Doctor. 
VERAD: I'm, I'm sorry about all this. Please, believe me, I wish I didn't have to do this. 
SISKO: Then don't. 
VERAD: I don't have any choice. I spent my whole life trying to qualify for the joining. I studied constantly every day, every waking hour. I sacrificed everything and then I went before the Symbiosis Evaluation Board and they reduced my entire life to one word. Unsuitable. 
DAX: It's nothing to be ashamed of. Neither of my parents or my sister underwent symbiosis. And they live happy and productive lives. Only one Trill in ten is chosen to be joined. 
VERAD: That's easy for you to say. They chose you. 
DAX: I was one of the lucky ones. 
MAREEL: Now it's Verad's turn to be lucky. 
KIRA: Why Dax? There are thousands of symbionts on Trill. Why her? 
VERAD: I did research. I worked it all out. The Dax symbiont is the best match for me. We have mutual interests. Science, diplomacy 
SISKO: Verad. There's another reason, isn't there? The wormhole. After you've stolen the symbiont, you plan on escaping to the Gamma Quadrant, don't you. 
MAREEL: Can you think of a better place to start a new life? 
DAX: I understand your frustration, But there could be dozens of reasons why the Board didn't select you for symbiosis. They have to be very careful. An improper joining can cause permanent psychological damage to both the symbiont and the host. They were only looking after your best interests. 
VERAD: Your best interests, maybe, but not mine. All they've done is condemn me to a life of, of mediocrity. Well, I refuse to accept it. I'm not going to spend the rest of my life dreaming about what I could have been, what I should have been. I deserve more and I'm going to get it. 
MAREEL: Yeto, T'Kar. It's time. 
BASHIR: I'll have no part in this. 
VERAD: I, I understand. 
(Verad shoots O'Brien in the shoulder) 
VERAD: Keep away from him. There, you see? I've taken the first step. Even if I don't get what I want, my life is over. So either you help me or you and your friends will die. It's your choice. 
DAX: He'll help. I don't want anyone else hurt because of me. But you have to give me your word that no one else on the station will be harmed. 
VERAD: I promise. Doctor? 
DAX: Do as he says, Julian. Please. 
BASHIR: Let me treat Chief O'Brien's phaser wound first. It won't take long. There's an emergency medical kit in the console. 
T'KAR: Get it. 
BASHIR: Hold still, Chief. There. There should be no permanent damage. (to Kira) Apply this every twenty minutes or so. It should help the wound regenerate. 
T'KAR: Enough stalling. 
SISKO: Do as he says, Doctor. This is no time to be a hero. 
T'KAR: Take them to the Infirmary. 
KIRA: This isn't over, Dax. I promise you. 
SISKO: Dax. 
DAX: I know, Benjamin. You'll do all you can. And just in case it isn't enough, I want you to know It's been fun. 
MAREEL: Let's go. (to Verad) Good luck. 
VERAD: It won't be long now, and then you'll see. Everything will be just as I promised. 
MAREEL: I know. 
[infirmary]
(Dax and Verad are lying on two operating beds. Bashir goes to put something on Verad's forehead.) 
VERAD: What's that? 
BASHIR: It's a delta wave inducer, to keep you asleep during the operation. It also increases your body's natural endorphin production to help accelerate the healing process. 
VERAD: I don't want it. 
BASHIR: I strongly recommend that you use it. The surgery will be much easier on you if you 
VERAD: I don't want your advice. I want to be awake. Use a neuroelectrical suppressor and set up a monitor so I can watch the procedure. That way, if you run into any trouble, I can assist you. Now, let's get started. 
(Bashir puts the device on Jadzia's forehead.) 
BASHIR: I'm sorry, Jadzia. 
DAX: Don't blame yourself, Julian. You did everything you could. 
BASHIR: This'll help you sleep. 
DAX: Thank you. 
BASHIR: Forgive me. 
[Ops]
KIRA: How long can Dax survive without the symbiont? 
SISKO: Once the symbiont is removed, the host usually dies within hours. But Jadzia is young and healthy. Bashir will do what he can. She'll make it through the night. 
O'BRIEN: That still doesn't give us much time 
T'KAR: No talking! 
(T'Kar kicks O'Brien's shoulder. Sisko wrestles the Klingon. Kira takes on Mareel but is easily beaten. Sisko knocks down T'Kar then faces Mareel with a phaser.)
MAREEL: I don't want to kill you, Commander, but I will. 
[Infirmary]
(Bashir removes Dax from Jadzia's pouch, cuts the cord, then slides it into Verad's pouch.) 
[Ops]
QUARK: This is ridiculous. Don't you realise they're going to kill us? What are you people sitting around for? Do something. 
KIRA: Do you have any suggestions? 
QUARK: Why should I have any suggestions? I'm not the military mastermind. I'm just a victim of circumstances. 
KIRA: Really? Then maybe you'd like to tell me how four armed terrorists got by our docking ring security grid. 
QUARK: Security grid? I don't know anything 
KIRA: Save it, Quark. You crossed the line this time. You sold us out and now Dax may die because of it. Whatever happens next, one thing is certain. You're through here. 
(Kira walks stiffly over to where Sisko is sitting) 
MAREEL: Are you all right? 
KIRA: I'll live. 
MAREEL: Don't try that again. I don't want to have to hurt anyone. 
KIRA: Tell that to Jadzia. 
MAREEL: That's different. 
KIRA: Do you really believe that? 
MAREEL: You heard Verad. They didn't leave him any other choice. 
KIRA: That's his reason. What's yours? 
MAREEL: I owe him. I grew up on the streets of Khefka Four. I never would've made it out of there without Verad. 
SISKO: What was he doing on Khefka Four? 
MAREEL: He was the communications clerk at the Federation consulate. He used to come by the accommodation house where I worked. I used to help him relax. When he was recalled to Trill he asked me to go with him. We've been together ever since. 
KIRA: And that's it? He got you out of a bad situation and now you're willing to kill for him? 
MAREEL: I owe him my life. If there's anything I can do for him, I'll do it. 
SISKO: Even if it means losing him? 
MAREEL: Losing him? 
SISKO: After the surgery, Verad won't be just Verad anymore. He'll be a blending of Verad, Dax, and all the previous hosts. Their memories, their knowledge, even their personalities. 
MAREEL: Verad told me that you'd say things like that. I know he'll change. He'll be smarter, more confident, but in all the important ways, he'll be the same. 
SISKO: I'm sorry, but if he told you that, he's lying. Once a Trill is joined, it's like a rebirth. He'll be an entirely different person. 
MAREEL: If you think I'm going to betray Verad, you're wrong. It doesn't matter what you say. I love him, and I'm going to stand by him no matter what. 
VERAD: I never doubted it. 
MAREEL: Verad. 
(Mareel goes to embrace Verad but he gently holds her away) 
VERAD: No, not just Verad. I'm Verad Dax. 
[Infirmary]
(Bashir is sealing Jadzia's pouch incision) 
BASHIR: Take this. Come on, we haven't got much time. Just move it back and forth over the wound in slow even strokes. 
YETO: Why bother? She'll be dead in a few hours anyway. 
BASHIR: Not if I have anything to do with it. Now help me. 
YETO: Why should I? She let herself be slaughtered like a mindless t'gla. If she wanted to live, she should have fought back. 
BASHIR: She did what she did to save the rest of us. 
YETO: Then she is a fool and she deserves her fate. 
BASHIR: Now listen to me, Yeto, or whatever your name is. I don't care about your warrior ethic, or your Klingon philosophy. This woman is dying and I need your help to save her. Now take this instrument. 
YETO: So the little human has some spark after all. 
(Yeto takes the device and waves it over Jadzia's belly while Bashir gives her a hypo) 
BASHIR: Come on, come on. 
DAX: Julian. 
BASHIR: Oh, thank God, I thought I'd lost you. 
DAX: The symbiont. It's gone. 
BASHIR: Everything went perfectly. The operation was a complete success. 
DAX: I feel so alone. 
BASHIR: I've got you stabilised. If only we could get the symbiont back in time. 
DAX: I'm scared, Julian. 
BASHIR: You're not going to die. Do you hear me? I'm not going to let you die. 
DAX: I've never felt so empty. 
BASHIR: Just rest. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Dax? 
VERAD: That's right, Benjamin. It's me. 
SISKO: Curzon, Tobin, Jadzia, all the others. They're all a part of you now. 
VERAD: It's amazing. So many ideas. So many memories. 
SISKO: Eight lifetimes of memories. It must be incredible. 
VERAD: It's better than I ever imagined. 
SISKO: The station must look very different to you. 
VERAD: It does. I, I know this place. And I know you Benjamin. 
SISKO: Of course you do. Remember when we first met? 
VERAD: Pelios Station. 
SISKO: Anastasia? 
VERAD: And that trip we took to the cliffs of Bole. 
(Laughter) 
SISKO: All the months we served aboard the Livingston? 
VERAD: And Science officer Kustanovich. What was it, eight helpings of Andorian redbat? 
SISKO: I've never seen anybody eat so much. Remember my wedding? 
VERAD: I remember your bachelor party, or some of it anyway. 
SISKO: And the time we discovered the wormhole? My, my, my. 
(The laughter stops and the smile disappears from Verad's face) 
VERAD: One of Jadzia's proudest moments. 
SISKO: And now that woman is bleeding to death in the Infirmary. 
VERAD: I'd rather not discuss that, Benjamin. 
SISKO: You have to discuss it, Dax. You know as well as I do we can't let her die. 
VERAD: But she's not going to die. She'll live on, in me. 
SISKO: Jadzia's memories will live on, but Jadzia herself will die and you will have killed her. 
VERAD: You think I don't know that? I'll never be able to forget it. But I promise you, Benjamin, I'll do all I can to make up for it. I'm not going to the Gamma Quadrant to hide. There are entire worlds who can benefit from my knowledge and experience. I can help them, and I will. 
SISKO: I have a better idea. 
VERAD: What's that. 
SISKO: Help Jadzia. Come with me down to the Infirmary. Put the symbiont back where it belongs. 
VERAD: I can't do that, Benjamin, even if I wanted to. Don't you see it's too late. The integration is already under way. 
SISKO: But there's still time to stop it. Jadzia's life can still be saved. 
MAREEL: Don't listen to him. He's just trying to confuse you. 
VERAD: It's all right, Mareel. Benjamin, the symbiont's still weak from the operation. If we attempt another joining so soon, it might not survive. Are you willing to risk that? 
SISKO: I am. The question is, are you? 
MAREEL: Why are you wasting your time with him? 
VERAD: Because he's my friend! Now go watch the others. We are still friends, aren't we, Benjamin? 
SISKO: I hope so. Come with me down to the Infirmary and prove it. 
VERAD: I can't do that. 
SISKO: Then you're not the Dax that I know. Our friendship's over. 
(Later, Verad is sitting alone in the Commander's office.) 
MAREEL: Here, drink this. 
O'BRIEN: What is it? 
MAREEL: Senarian egg broth. It'll keep your strength up. All right, don't drink it. It makes no difference to me. 
O'BRIEN: Hold on. Thank you. 
SISKO: He even looks different, doesn't he? The way he stands, the way he moves, talks. 
MAREEL: He's better than he was. 
SISKO: I'm glad you think so. 
MAREEL: I do. 
SISKO: Really? The way he dismissed you before. Verad never did that. 
MAREEL: He's under a lot of stress. 
SISKO: Verad was under stress the minute he stepped onto this station. But he never turned on you, did he? 
MAREEL: What's your point, Commander? 
SISKO: I think you know. 
MAREEL: You're trying to turn me against Verad. 
SISKO: Verad no longer exists. You know that better than I do. 
MAREEL: All right then, Verad Dax. But it won't work. Nothing has changed between us. 
SISKO: You really believe that? 
MAREEL: Yes. 
SISKO: All right, then make me believe it. Go in there and talk to him. 
MAREEL: Talk to him about what? 
SISKO: I don't know. Whatever you want. I'm sure the two of you have a lot to say to one another. 
MAREEL: I don't want to disturb him. 
SISKO: Why not? 
MAREEL: Because I don't want to. 
SISKO: Look at him, sitting in there all alone. He needs you. 
MAREEL: That's enough. 
SISKO: I don't understand why you're being so reluctant. This is a perfect time for the two of you to get reacquainted. 
MAREEL: I said, that's enough! 
VERAD: Mareel? Is anything wrong? 
MAREEL: No. Everything's fine. 
VERAD: Good. Be careful. I wouldn't want anything to happen to you. 
(Verad goes back into the office. Quark rolls a coin across the floor. T'Kar bends down to pick it up and Quark jumps on his back.) 
QUARK: I got him! I got him! 
(Mareel holds Sisko and Kira back with her phaser) 
MAREEL: Stay back. 
(T'Kar slams Quark into a railing) 
QUARK: Maybe we should talk about this? 
(T'Kar throws Quark off.) 
QUARK: My ear! 
T'KAR: Pathetic. 
VERAD: Mareel, take him to the Infirmary. 
[Infirmary]
(Quark is screaming) 
BASHIR: What is it now? 
QUARK: Please. It hurts. 
BASHIR: All right. Hold on. The damage appears to be fairly superficial. (Quark mouths No) But Ferengi ears are incredibly sensitive, so I'd better run some further tests. 
[Ops]
VERAD: The storm's intensity's dropped another twenty percent. I know this has been hard for you, Benjamin. It's been hard for both of us. But it's almost over. 
(Mareel enters) 
MAREEL: Good. I'm getting tired of waiting here. How are you feeling? 
VERAD: Better than ever, thanks to you. I couldn't have done this without you. I would have spent the rest of my life a mediocre man only dreaming of what might have been. You know what you have to do. 
MAREEL: You just worry about getting through the wormhole. The Klingons and I'll make sure that no one stops you. 
VERAD: Remember, I don't want you staying here any longer than you have to. Give me an hour, then head for the wormhole. The runabout's on pad C. 
MAREEL: The sooner you leave, the sooner I can follow, and the sooner we can be together. 
(He doesn't return her hug) 
MAREEL: It's going to be all right, isn't it? 
VERAD: Just wait for me at the rendezvous point. 
(Mareel recoils slightly before letting Verad kiss her) 
[infirmary]
YETO: Stop whining or I'll put you out of your misery. 
BASHIR: It's not his fault. He's got a deep contusion of the auricular lobe and a possible dislocated malleus. In a Ferengi, either condition could be fatal. But if you want him to stop, give me a hand with this. 
YETO: I'm not your nurse. 
BASHIR: Look, let's not go through that again. Just hold this against his ear. 
(Yeto stabs the instrument in, eliciting a genuine scream) 
BASHIR: Not too hard. 
(Bashir makes up a spray hypo.) 
BASHIR: Just another second. Relax. 
(And he injects Yeto) 
BASHIR: There. 
QUARK: Thank you, Doctor. I feel better already. How is she? 
BASHIR: I've have her stabilised, but there's no telling how much time she's got left. We've got to get the symbiont back before it's too late. 
(Bashir removed the box from the stasis chamber) 
QUARK: What are you doing? 
BASHIR: Odo's in here. 
QUARK: He is? 
BASHIR: Yes, and we've got to get him out. 
QUARK: Are you sure? 
BASHIR: Quark. If we only knew the access code. 
QUARK: Allow me. 
(Quark pushes a few buttons, then) 
QUARK: Standard Delgorian locking mechanism. Sophisticated, but vulnerable if you know its weaknesses. Hand me that laser scalpel. 
(Quark cuts off a piece of one side, fiddles with the innards and the box opens) 
QUARK: It's a gift. 
[Ops]
T'KAR: The storm's decreased another fifteen percent. 
VERAD: Excellent. That should be more than enough to allow safe passage to the wormhole. Verad to Yeto. Verad to Yeto. 
T'KAR: Yeto, report! 
VERAD: The doctor must have overpowered him. 
T'KAR: The doctor? Impossible. 
VERAD: It's the shape-shifter. He must have freed the shape-shifter. T'Kar, get me to the ship. 
MAREEL: You better take a hostage, just in case. 
SISKO: I'll go with you. 
VERAD: I'd love your company, Benjamin, but somehow I don't think you have my best interests at heart. Kira, I hate to inconvenience you. 
KIRA: That's all right. If Odo's free, there's no way you're getting off this station. 
VERAD: Mareel. 
MAREEL: Good luck. 
VERAD: Well, Benjamin, I guess this is goodbye. Not many friendships last over two lifetimes. I wish we could have made it three. 
SISKO: You'll be seeing me again, Verad. 
(A short while later) 
SISKO: So, where's this rendezvous going to be? 
MAREEL: You don't really expect me to tell you? 
SISKO: No, but I hope you like it there, because you'll be waiting for Verad a long time. 
MAREEL: How would you know? 
SISKO: You told me yourself. I saw the look on your face when he asked you to wait for him. 
MAREEL: The plan was the was supposed to get there first. That he would wait for me, not the other way around. 
SISKO: Well, maybe it was an honest mistake, a slip of the tongue. 
MAREEL: He lied to me. He's never lied to me before. He's not coming. He doesn't need me anymore. 
SISKO: No, you're wrong. He does need you now, more than ever. 
MAREEL: You never give up, do you? I told you I'm not going to betray him. 
SISKO: I'm not asking you to. I'm asking you to save him. To help us save him. 
MAREEL: All you care about is Jadzia. 
SISKO: That's right. And you care about Verad. And we can save them both. Don't you see? Dax and Verad were never meant to be joined. We've got to remove the symbiont while there's still time. 
MAREEL: If you hurt him, I'll kill you. 
(She hands over the phaser and comm. badge) 
SISKO: I don't doubt it. 
[Airlock]
(There's a trolley in the way and the other door won't open.) 
VERAD: The ship. It's gone. 
(The tool cart turns into) 
ODO: That's because I released the docking clamps. 
(Kira takes on T'Kar while Verad runs away.) 
[Another Airlock]
(Sisko is waiting inside this one) 
SISKO: Looks like that goodbye was a little premature. 
VERAD: Don't be ridiculous. You're not going to shoot me. 
SISKO: What makes you so sure? 
VERAD: This is Dax you're talking to, Benjamin. We both know that if you shoot me, even on stun, you risk killing the symbiont. 
SISKO: If I let you go, Jadzia dies. 
VERAD: But Dax will live. What's one girl's life compared to eight lifetimes of knowledge and experience? You're not going to shoot me. You know that and so do I. Goodbye, Benjamin. 
(Verad walks past Sisko to the runabout) 
SISKO: Verad. Don't call me Benjamin. 
(And he does shoot him) 
[Infirmary]
(Verad wakes to see Mareel) 
VERAD: I feel strange. So empty. 
SISKO: It's over now, Verad. The symbiont is back where it belongs. 
VERAD: So close. I had it. I had it and now I'm alone. 
MAREEL: You're not alone, Verad. I'm here. I'll always be here. 
VERAD: I can't remember any of it. The knowledge, the confidence, it's all gone. 
BASHIR: Commander? 
(Jadzia sits up) 
SISKO: Jadzia. Are you? 
DAX: I'm fine. I remember it all, Benjamin. Everything he thought, everything he did, and it's so sad. I guess he'll always be with me. 

