Episode Number: 522
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Empok Nor
Empok Nor
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 19 May, 1997
[Quark's]
(Fully staffed, but the only customer is Morn until Dax, Kira and Worf enter.) 
QUARK: Welcome, welcome, welcome. 
DAX: It's a little quiet in here. 
QUARK: Oh, you just beat the rush. Let me get your order before, er, before I get swamped. 
DAX: I'll have a Til'amin froth. 
KIRA: And I'll have a 
(Drilling starts up. They have to shout over it.) 
WORF: What was that? 
QUARK: What was what? Oh, that? It's just my nephew and Chief O'Brien repairing some conduit. You'll get used to it. 
(Drilling again.) 
WORF: The Klingon restaurant? 
DAX: It would be quieter. 
(Worf, Dax and Kira leave. Nog appears.) 
QUARK: When are you two going to be done in there? 
NOG: When the conduit is repaired and brought back up to safety specs. 
QUARK: Well, hurry up, before I lose all my customers. 
NOG: I need to get something. 
QUARK: What? 
NOG: Two root beers? 
(The drilling makes Quark's ears hurt.) 
[Conduit]
(O'Brien the surgeon and scrub nurse Nog are operating.) 
O'BRIEN: Hyper spanner. 
(Nog hands it over.) 
O'BRIEN: Optronic coupler. 
(Likewise, then is ready with the next item.) 
O'BRIEN: How did you know I was going to ask for a phase decompiler? 
NOG: I was paying attention, sir. 
O'BRIEN: That you were, Cadet. 
NOG: My father says that I can learn a lot from you. He says you can fix anything. 
O'BRIEN: I'm an Engineer. That's what we do. There. Good as new. 
NOG: Amazing. 
(Bang. They disappear in a cloud of something.) 
O'BRIEN: Damn! 
[Ops]
(Walking through.) 
O'BRIEN: We repaired the leak right away. The problem is worse than I thought. The entire plasma distribution manifold is shot. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Can you replicate a new one? 
O'BRIEN: No. Cardassian manifolds use a beta-matrix compositor which can't be replicated. 
ODO: I suppose we could contact Gul Dukat and ask if he has any spare manifold systems lying around. 
SISKO: I'm sure he'd jump at the chance to help us. Any other ideas? 
O'BRIEN: We could send a salvage team to the abandoned Cardassian station in the Trivas System. 
SISKO: Empok Nor? 
O'BRIEN: It's the same design as this station. The Cardassians pulled out about a year ago, but there's a good chance that the plasma manifold system is still operational. 
SISKO: What about Dominion activity in the area? 
O'BRIEN: There hasn't been any for several months. Strategically, they seem to have lost interest in that sector. 
ODO: But there is one problem. It's standard Cardassian procedure to booby-trap a facility before abandoning it, and a lot of the surprises they leave behind are specifically keyed to attack non-Cardassians. 
SISKO: Sounds like you should take a Cardassian along. 
[Airlock]
O'BRIEN: So what did Captain Sisko do to persuade you to come along? 
GARAK: How do you know I didn't volunteer? 
O'BRIEN: He threatened you, didn't he? 
GARAK: Nothing so coarse. The Captain bribed me. He offered to help me procure a larger space for my workshop. The latest dressmaking equipment is surprisingly bulky. 
[Runabout]
O'BRIEN: Well, whatever he did, I'm glad you're here. What's the matter? 
GARAK: It's just that lately I've noticed that everyone seems to trust me. It's quite unnerving. I'm still trying to get used to it. Next thing I know, people are going to be inviting me to their homes for dinner. 
O'BRIEN: Well, if it makes you feel any better, I promise I will never have you over. 
GARAK: I appreciate that, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Don't mention it. Anything to return the favour. Disarming Cardassian booby traps is my least favourite kind of engineering. 
GARAK: I can certainly understand that, but don't worry. I have some experience in that area. 
[Airlock]
BOQ'TA: (Bolian) Booby-traps? I can't believe I let you talk me into volunteering for this. 
PECHETTI: Well, it beats working on the waste extraction system. Besides, how often does an engineer get to wear a phaser? 
STOLZOFF: (Female security) Hate to disappoint you, Pechetti. But the only thing you'll be using that for is shooting voles. Empok Nor's been abandoned so long, they're going to be hungry. 
AMARO: (Male security) Don't worry, you play with your wrenches, we'll watch your back. 
[Runabout]
(Nog follows the group in carrying a rifle.) 
AMARO: Can I help you, Cadet? 
NOG: I'm reporting for duty, sir. 
O'BRIEN: Welcome aboard, Cadet. 
NOG: Thank you, sir. And may I say it's a privilege to be here, sir. 
O'BRIEN: You've earned it. But one more sir and I'll leave you behind. 
NOG: Very well, s. Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Let's get going. Next stop, Empok Nor. 
(Later, en route. Garak and Nog are playing a board game. Boq'ta is at helm.) 
GARAK: What are you doing? 
NOG: Regrouping. 
GARAK: But you're losing. 
NOG: That's why I have to protect my assets. 
GARAK: This is not a financial transaction. Protecting your assets is what got you into trouble in the first place. You have to go on the offensive. You have to attack. 
NOG: Your move. 
GARAK: This is maddening. Asking a Ferengi to play a Cardassian game is like asking a Klingon to chew with his mouth closed. Kotra is not about regrouping or hoarding assets. It's about bold strategy and decisive action. Chief, would you like to take on the winner? I'd love to play Kotra against the hero of Setlik Three. 
O'BRIEN: What is that supposed to mean? 
GARAK: Oh, we all know your distinguished war record. How you led two dozen men against the Barrica encampment and took out an entire regiment of Cardassians. If you play Kotra with half that brazenness, we'd have quite a match. 
O'BRIEN: I'm not a soldier anymore. I'm an engineer. 
GARAK: I see. So when you and Doctor Bashir go into the holosuites for hours at a time you're just repairing them? 
O'BRIEN: What's your point, Garak? 
GARAK: I'm just curious. Why do you and Doctor Bashir spend hours in the holosuites dressed as fighter pilots, reliving ancient battles? 
O'BRIEN: We do it for fun. It's a game. 
GARAK: So is Kotra. And I'd love nothing more than to play against a man like you. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe some other time. 
PECHETTI: Chief, here's the wish list you wanted. Three categories. Must Have, which includes the manifolds and the plasma recoilers. Could Use, things like EPS matrix converters and Would be Nice. Bypass displacers, polarity maximisers, that sort of thing. 
O'BRIEN: Cardassian emblems and insignias? 
PECHETTI: A low priority, but if we happen to find some. 
O'BRIEN: This is a salvage operation, Pechetti, not an opportunity to indulge your collecting obsession. 
PECHETTI: Right. 
(Later still. Now Nog is at helm.) 
NOG: Approaching Empok Nor, sir. 
O'BRIEN: Take us out of warp. Run a full scan. I'll take the helm. 
NOG: The station's main power supply and life support systems are offline. No lifesigns. 
O'BRIEN: I'll take us into transporter range. 
GARAK: Oh, I don't think we can risk beaming aboard. There are probably pattern scramblers rigged to go off if they detect a non-Cardassian transporter signal. 
O'BRIEN: That could be messy. We'll have to dock. Landing pads are sealed. We'll have to try an upper pylon. 
NOG: Won't the airlock have booby-traps? 
GARAK: You can count on it. And someone's going to have to disarm them before we dock. 
NOG: I volunteer, sir. 
GARAK: The scanner in the airlock might mistake your enthusiasm as Cardassian, but not your DNA. No, I'm afraid I'm the only one who as a chance of getting through. 
[Empok Nor Airlock]
(Something is banging. Garak, in a spacesuit, pulls a lever and the gravity comes on. A few buttons and the whole station starts to wake up and come back to life, including the Infirmary. In here are three stasis chambers from Voyager's The Thaw, and one occupant is now awake. The runabout docks. The lighting is lower than usual and our people use flash lights to get around and see what they are doing.)
GARAK: Ah. Welcome to Empok Nor. 
O'BRIEN: Thanks for having us. 
GARAK: Take whatever you need. My house is your house. 
O'BRIEN: All right, listen up. We're going to break up into three teams. Nog and Stolzoff, you're with me. We're going to do the Must Haves. Pechetti and Amaro, you'll do Could Use. Boq'ta and Garak, Would Be Nice. 
O'BRIEN: Garak has disabled the central security net, but there could be booby-traps anywhere. Don't move into an area until you've scanned it. If you see something that isn't right, don't touch it. Call for help. All right, let's go. 
[Empok Nor Promenade]
(Garak starts to follow Boq'ta up the stairs, when he touches some blue gel on the banister.) 
BOQ'TA: It's a biogenic compound. 
GARAK: I wonder where it came from. Follow me. 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
(Two chambers are lit and open, one is dark and shut. A falling girder smashed the cover.) 
BOQ'TA: These look like stasis tubes. 
(Garak lifts off the girder and opens the chamber. A skeleton is inside.) 
BOQ'TA: Cardassian. He's been dead for about a year. Hey, look at this. 
GARAK: Interesting. 
BOQ'TA: A regimental badge. 
GARAK: Third Battalion, First Order, if I'm not mistaken. 
BOQ'TA: This is going to make Pechetti's day. 
GARAK: Both these tubes have been activated recently. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
(Surgery is underway in a panel.) 
O'BRIEN: Coil spanner. Flux-coupler. 
NOG: Uh-oh. 
O'BRIEN: Flux-coupler! 
NOG: I left it on the runabout. I'll go get it right away, sir. I mean, Chief. 
GARAK [OC]: Garak to O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Go ahead. 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
GARAK: Could you come down to the Infirmary? There's something you should see. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
O'BRIEN: On my way. 
[Empok Nor Airlock]
(The runabout is drifting away from the station.) 
NOG: That's not right. 
(KaBOOM!) 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
O'BRIEN: A runabout doesn't disengage from its docking clamps and blow up all on its own. 
GARAK: Which leads me to believe that the former occupants of these chambers are up and about. 
PECHETTI: If you're telling me that there are two Cardassian soldiers from the Third Battalion loose on this station, we're in trouble. Death to All. That was their motto. 
GARAK: Three simple words, and they certainly sum up their credo nicely. 
NOG: Why would the Cardassians abandon the station and leave behind a few soldiers in stasis tubes? 
STOLZOFF: Why do you think? To guard it. The tubes were probably rigged to wake them up as soon as someone came aboard. 
O'BRIEN: That's possible, but one thing's for sure. They're out there somewhere, and considering what they did to the runabout, I don't think they're too friendly. 
STOLZOFF: Maybe they're upset because we haven't introduced ourselves. 
AMARO: We should find them, say hello. (tricorder) This thing's not working. 
O'BRIEN: Neither's mine. They must've set up a dampening field. 
BOQ'TA: We've got to get out of here. Let's call for help. 
PECHETTI: How? The station's subspace transceiver was ripped out when the Cardassians evacuated. 
AMARO: Well, we could always try sending smoke signals. 
O'BRIEN: That's not a bad idea. The deflector grid is still relatively intact. If we could modify the field coils to emit a series of covariant pulses. 
PECHETTI: We could use the station like an old-fashioned telegraph and tap out an SOS. 
O'BRIEN: For the pulses to be strong enough to reach Deep Space Nine, we'd have to boost power to the induction grid. Pechetti, you go down to the Habitat ring and bring the microfusion reactor back online. Stolzoff, you go with him. Boq'ta, realign the magnetic flow field in conduit G-four. Amaro will watch your back. Nog and Garak, you're with me. We'll set up the signal generator in cargo bay four. 
NOG: Aye, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: Use your communicators as little as possible. We don't want to give away our positions. Any questions? Let's go. 
[Empok Nor Cargo bay]
GARAK: I'm not convinced Stolzoff was right about our Cardassian friends. Why would anyone voluntarily seal themselves into a stasis tube, perhaps for years, just to guard an abandoned station? Even the Third Battalion isn't that fanatical. Something else is going on. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe so, but I don't intend to be here long enough to find out what it is. 
GARAK: That's the trouble with humans. You don't know how to appreciate a good mystery. 
O'BRIEN: I love a good mystery, the kind I can read in bed, not the kind that's trying to kill me. 
GARAK: Don't get me wrong, Chief. I want to get off this station as much as you do, but I just know if I don't figure this out it's going to nag at me for days. 
(Meanwhile Nog is sweeping the bay, rifle ready, whilst a Cardassian is sneaking up behind him.) 
O'BRIEN: Right now, let's concentrate on finishing this signal modulator so we can get out of here. You have the whole trip home to sort out the mystery. Nog? I need your help with the phase discriminator. 
NOG: On my way, Chief. 
(The Cardassian ducks back into the shadows.) 
[Empok Nor Promenade]
(Work is in progress.) 
PECHETTI: Do you mind not aiming that at me? 
STOLZOFF: Don't worry, the safety's on. 
(The turbolift arrives on the upper level.) 
STOLZOFF: Tell me you did that. 
(The turbolift comes down the ground floor. They take up position either side. The doors open.) 
STOLZOFF: (silent) On three. One, two three. 
(It's empty) 
PECHETTI: Maybe I did activate the turbolift without realising it. 
(There's a door noise overhead.) 
STOLZOFF: I'm going up. 
PECHETTI: Okay. 
(Pechetti sees an insignia in a glass case. As he admires it he gets grabbed by a Cardassian.) 
STOLZOFF: Pechetti! Stolzoff to O'Brien. A Cardassian 
(The second one hits her then throws her over the railing.) 
[Empok Nor Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: Stolzoff? Stolzoff! 
[Empok Nor Promenade]
(They find Stolzoff's body, the glass and then Pechetti's remains too. Boq'ta and Amaro arrive during the break and the bodies are covered with sheets.) 
BOQ'TA: The Cardassians must've surprised them. They're probably using the internal sensors to track us. 
O'BRIEN: Take it easy. We're going to get out of here, you can count on that. But we've got to stay focused. It looks like Pechetti was almost done getting the microfusion reactor back online. I'll finish that and then I'll go back down to the cargo bay. How are you doing with the conduits? 
BOQ'TA: I'm done. 
O'BRIEN: Good. You and Amaro get down to auxiliary control and reconfigure the pulse generator. 
BOQ'TA: We're going to split up? 
O'BRIEN: We have to. If we don't send out a signal, we're never going to get off this station. 
BOQ'TA: But Chief, what if we can't 
O'BRIEN: I need you, Boq'ta. You can do this. 
AMARO: Don't worry. I'll watch your back. 
BOQ'TA: Stolzoff was supposed to be watching Pechetti's back. Look what happened to them. 
O'BRIEN: What if I send Garak with you too? Would that make you feel better? 
GARAK: I'm flattered, but I'm afraid I have other plans. 
O'BRIEN: What are you talking about? 
GARAK: I don't intend to stand around waiting to be killed. 
O'BRIEN: Meaning what? 
GARAK: Meaning, I'm going after those two Cardassian soldiers and neutralise them. Besides, all this whining is giving me a headache. 
AMARO: You're going to have more than a headache if you don't do what the Chief wants. 
O'BRIEN: Amaro. 
GARAK: You'd like to shoot me, wouldn't you? You're dying to kill a Cardassian. Any Cardassian. 
O'BRIEN: Let him go. If he thinks he can neutralise the Cardassians, let him try. He'll be doing us all a favour. 
GARAK: That's the spirit. Why don't you come with me, Chief? Kill a few Cardies. It'd be like old times. Wouldn't you like to avenge their deaths? 
O'BRIEN: No. I just want to get everyone home. 
GARAK: You're fighting your instincts, I can see it. But the hero of Setlik Three is still inside there somewhere. 
O'BRIEN: If you're going to go, go. Nog, you go with Boq'ta and Amaro. 
NOG: Aye, sir. 
BOQ'TA: It's all right, Chief. He can stay with you. For some reason, knowing Garak's going after those Cardassians makes me feel better. 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
(Garak is trying to work a console.) 
GARAK: Access denied. Access denied. Don't you know how to say anything else? Apparently not. 
(There's a door sound outside.) 
GARAK: Access denied. 
[Empok Nor Promenade]
GARAK [OC]: Access denied. Access denied. Access denied. How monotonous. 
(A soldier comes down the stairs and goes into the Infirmary.) 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
(The place is empty. The soldier looks around then is about to leave when the third chamber opens.) 
GARAK: Looking for me? 
(He kills the soldier.) 
GARAK: That felt good. 
[Empok Nor Cargo bay]
NOG: Chief, why does Garak keep bringing up Setlik Three? 
O'BRIEN: Because he wants to get under my skin. 
NOG: But you were a hero, weren't you? 
O'BRIEN: That doesn't mean I like thinking about what happened then. I was a soldier, Nog. Sometimes soldiers have to kill. 
GARAK: Come now, Chief, don't be so modest. You did a lot of killing. 
NOG: How'd you get in here? Both doors are secure. 
GARAK: Secure is such a relative term, wouldn't you agree? I've brought you something, if you don't mind. 
(Another Third Battalion insignia.) 
GARAK: I'm sure Pechetti would have appreciated it more, but 
O'BRIEN: Where did you get this? 
GARAK: From its former owner. 
NOG: You killed one of the soldiers? 
GARAK: One down, one to go. By the way, I took a tissue sample from the soldier's body. The analysis was rather fascinating, in a grim sort of way. It seems the unfortunate soul had been given a massive dose of psychotropic drugs. 
O'BRIEN: Why? 
GARAK: I'm not sure, but I can tell you one thing. It wasn't to make him amicable. The drug's protein structure seems designed to amplify my people's xenophobic tendencies. My guess is that the soldiers that were left here were part of a Cardassian military experiment. The High Command was probably looking for a way to further motivate their troops. 
O'BRIEN: So they gave them a drug to make them hate anybody but Cardassians? 
NOG: Then why did they attack you? 
GARAK: That's a good question. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe it's an experiment that went wrong. That's why they were left in stasis. They were uncontrollable. 
GARAK: I'd love to stay and hypothesise all afternoon, but once I've set my mind to a task, I hate to leave it unfinished. What is it, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: You look different. 
GARAK: How so? 
O'BRIEN: That's not the face of a tailor. 
GARAK: I'm not a tailor. Not for the moment, anyway. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
BOQ'TA: You know, I once bought a suit from Garak. Turns out the sleeve was a little long. I remember being angry when I brought it in to be fixed. 
AMARO: Is there a point to this story? 
BOQ'TA: If I had known he was so dangerous, I never would've complained. You think he'll get the other Cardassian? 
AMARO: I hope not. I want to get him myself. 
BOQ'TA: I don't blame you. 
(Garak is watching them.) 
AMARO: Stolzoff was my friend. We were at the Academy together. 
(Garak spots the second soldier and slides into the shadows) 
AMARO: She was my sparring partner. The first time we faced off I remember thinking I ought to take it easy on her. She ended up taking me down so hard it knocked the wind out of me. That was the last time I ever pulled a punch with her. She had this one two combination, a feint to the right and a chop to the neck, faked me out every time. If that spoonhead gives me the chance, I'll just try it out on him. I think Stolzoff would have liked that.;
BOQ'TA: I can't get this loose. Give me the coil spanner, would you? 
(Amaro puts down his rifle and rummages in the tool box.) 
AMARO: What does it look like? 
BOQ'TA: It's got two pointy things on the end. 
(Boq'ta screams. Amaro turns and hears a crack as the soldier breaks Boq'ta's neck. Then Garak shoots the soldier in the back.) 
AMARO: He asked me to get a coil spanner for him. I just turned my back for a second. 
GARAK: That's a shame. And the worst part of it is, this isn't a coil spanner. 
(Garak stabs Amaro with it.) 
GARAK: It's a flux coupler. 
(And he slides off into the shadows.) 
[Empok Nor Cargo bay]
O'BRIEN: That should do it. O'Brien to Boq'ta. Boq'ta, come in. Amaro, what's going on up there? 
[Empok Nor corridor]
AMARO: He's out there. 
O'BRIEN: Easy now. Easy. Who's out there? 
AMARO: Garak. He stabbed me. 
(Amaro dies.) 
NOG: Chief, why would Garak do this? 
O'BRIEN: Come on. He may still be close by. 
[Empok Nor Infirmary]
NOG: It doesn't make any sense. Garak's on our side. 
O'BRIEN: Not anymore. The psychotropic drug. He must've been exposed to it. It's the only explanation. I should've seen it earlier. The way he accused Amaro of wanting to kill him. The way he insisted on going after those Cardassians. 
NOG: He's coming after us, isn't he? 
O'BRIEN: Yes. 
NOG: Maybe we can reason with him. Get him to try to understand that the drug is affecting him. 
O'BRIEN: You saw what he did to Amaro and the others. He's not going to listen to us. 
NOG: Then we have to finish setting up the deflector grid. We've got to get a distress signal out. 
O'BRIEN: Garak knows what we've been trying to do. He'll stop us. 
NOG: Don't we have to try? 
O'BRIEN: Forget it! I've already lost four crewmen trying to send out that bloody signal. Garak was right. We should've gone after those Cardassians as soon as they attacked us. You don't wait for the enemy to come to you, you go to him. Come on. We're going after Garak. 
NOG: You mean, to kill him? 
O'BRIEN: If that's what it takes to stop him, yes. 
[Empok Nor Commander's office]
GARAK: I know you're hiding somewhere. Ah, there you are. 
(Finds a kotra game piece and puts it on the board.) 
GARAK: Garak to Chief O'Brien. You'll never guess what I found. A kotra board. The Station Commander left one in his office. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
GARAK [OC]: The pieces were scattered all over but I found the last one hiding under his desk. 
[Empok Nor Commander's office]
GARAK: I can't help thinking what a perfect metaphor this game is for our present situation. Two players, two minds, two strategies. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
GARAK [OC]: Each trying to outmanoeuvre the other, testing the enemy's defences. Advancing, retreating. 
O'BRIEN: We split up. Enter Ops through the main corridor. I'll go through the Captain's office. Wait for my signal. 
GARAK [OC]: The only difference is, in the game we're playing 
[Empok Nor Commander's office]
GARAK: The stakes are life and death, which makes it so much more interesting. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
(Nog is outside Ops.) 
GARAK [OC]: I haven't had this much fun in years. My heart's pounding. 
(O'Brien is outside the office. He taps his comm. badge twice.) 
GARAK [OC]: The blood's racing through my veins. I feel so alive. And I'd wager so you do. 
[Empok Nor Ops]
(Nog enters Ops, O'Brien enters an empty office. The kotra game is on the main ops table.) 
[Empok Nor Commander's office]
(The doors close, and O'Brien is stopped by a forcefield. In Ops, Garak tackles Nog.) 
[Empok Nor Ops]
GARAK: It looks like I've captured your last piece, Chief. If you want it back, you're going to have to take it from me. 
(Garak takes Nog away. Once he's gone the forcefield switches off and O'Brien comes out to overturn the kotra board.) 
GARAK [OC]: It's your move, Chief. What are you going to do? Attack? Retreat? Surrender? 
O'BRIEN: Listen to me, Garak. It's the drug. It's affecting you. You've got to fight it. 
[Empok Nor Corridor]
(Garak has tied Nog up, and his comm. badge on his sleeve.) 
GARAK: Fight it? But I'm enjoying myself. This is the most exciting game I've played in years. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: It's not a game! 
GARAK: Oh, but it is. And the best thing about it is that it brings out the player's true nature. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Where are you, Garak? 
GARAK: I saw the look in your eyes when I took the Ferengi away from you. You wanted to kill me. 
[Empok Nor Ops]
GARAK [OC]: You wanted to strangle me with your bare hands. 
O'BRIEN: I just want my crewman back, that's all. 
GARAK [OC]: You're a killer. Admit it. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
GARAK: We both are. Behind your Federation mask of decency and benevolence, you're a predator 
[Empok Nor Ops]
GARAK: Just like me. 
O'BRIEN: No, I'm nothing like you. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
GARAK: Oh, but you are. You proved that on Setlik Three. How many Cardassians did you kill? Ten? Twenty? 
[Empok Nor Ops]
GARAK [OC]: A hundred? 
O'BRIEN: I don't remember. 
GARAK [OC]: Oh, but you remember how you felt. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
GARAK: The Cardassians were killing your men. You had to stop them. You had to make them pay. Blood for blood. You enjoyed killing them, didn't you. You enjoyed watching the life drain from their eyes. 
[Empok Nor Ops]
O'BRIEN: All right, Garak, you want to finish this game? Fine. Let's finish it. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
O'BRIEN [OC]: You and me. Face to face. 
GARAK: Nothing would give me greater pleasure. We'll meet on the Promenade. 
[Empok Nor Ops]
O'BRIEN: No weapons. 
GARAK [OC]: No weapons. 
[Empok Nor corridor]
GARAK: You have no idea how hard it is to keep from pulling this trigger. But I need you alive. 
[Empok Nor Promenade]
(O'Brien enters, using his rifle flashlight sparingly. He walks into Stolzoff's corpse hanging from the wall. They're all there.) 
GARAK: They've come to cheer you on, Chief. Your loyal team. Apparently they've forgiven you for getting them all killed. 
(The dead Cardassian soldiers are there too. Nog and Garak are at the entrance to the Infirmary.) 
GARAK: My supporters may be fewer in number, but they're no less loyal. I thought we agreed no weapons. 
O'BRIEN: What's that in your hand? 
GARAK: Well, how did this get here? But we won't be needing these, will we. Put yours down. 
O'BRIEN: You first. 
GARAK: Put it down, or say goodbye to the Ferengi. 
NOG: Don't do it, Chief. 
GARAK: He has nothing to worry about. I'm not going to shoot an unarmed man. What fun would that be? 
(O'Brien puts the rifle down.) 
GARAK: You wouldn't happen to have another one, would you? 
(A hand phaser and a tricorder.) 
GARAK: Naughty, naughty. 
(As O'Brien puts them down, he activates the tricorder.) 
O'BRIEN: Your turn. 
GARAK: I admit I'm tempted to end this right now, But that would be depriving myself of too much enjoyment. 
(Garak sets down his rifle. They exchange punches and O'Brien goes down.) 
GARAK: I'm disappointed, Chief. I expected to see the bloodlust in your eyes but all I see is fear. 
(O'Brien gets up to be knocked down again.) 
GARAK: Maybe it's true. Maybe you're not a soldier anymore. 
O'BRIEN: You're right. I'm an engineer. 
(He taps his comm. badge, the tricorder triggers the phaser to overload and BOOM! Garak is knocked out by the blast.) 
O'BRIEN: Are you okay, Nog? 
NOG: I'm all right, sir. 
(O'Brien walks over to Garak.) 
NOG: Is he dead? Did you kill him? 
O'BRIEN: No. I didn't. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: He should be all right in a few days. I've neutralised the psychotropic compound that was affecting his nervous system. 
O'BRIEN: He looks so peaceful. It's hard to believe he's the same man who attacked us. 
BASHIR: In a way, he's not. The drug brought out the worst parts of him and allowed them to take over. He wasn't in control of his actions. 
O'BRIEN: Can I talk to him? 
BASHIR: For a minute. 
O'BRIEN: I thought you might want to know that we salvaged the plasma manifold. It's being installed right now. 
GARAK: Mission accomplished. 
O'BRIEN: I guess it didn't exactly go the way any of us expected. You know there's going to be an inquest. 
GARAK: Yes, I've been told that. Chief, I was hoping to ask a favour. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. Once they know the facts 
GARAK: It's not about that. I'd like you to express my deepest regrets to Amaro's wife. I'd talk to her myself, but I'm not sure she'd welcome that. 
O'BRIEN: I'll tell her. 
GARAK: I'd appreciate it. 
O'BRIEN: Julian tells me the blast broke a couple of your ribs. 
GARAK: Well, it could have been worse. If I'd been any closer to that phaser, it would have killed me. 
O'BRIEN: Don't take this the wrong way, but that was the plan. 
GARAK: I understand. 
O'BRIEN: I'll see you around. 

