Episode Number: 446
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Jem'Hadar
The Jem'Hadar
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 13 Jun, 1994
[Sisko's quarters]
(Jake is tending things in pots.) 
SISKO: Hey, Jake. What's all this? 
JAKE: My science project. I'm growing Bajoran katterpods to find out which hybrid yields the biggest root. 
SISKO: That's it? You're just going to watch it grow? 
JAKE: Yeah. Pretty neat, huh? 
SISKO: Not bad, but don't you think it's a little Low tech? 
JAKE: I'm a low tech kind of guy, Dad. 
SISKO: I still think you can do something a little more challenging. If you could do any science project you wanted to, anything at all, what would it be? 
JAKE: Learn how to pilot a runabout? 
SISKO: Well, that's not exactly a science project, is it? Second choice? 
JAKE: Visit the Gamma Quadrant? 
SISKO: And what would you do when you got there? 
JAKE: I don't know. I could do a planetary survey? 
SISKO: Not bad. All right, let's do it. 
JAKE: Really? 
SISKO: It'll be like a vacation. A working vacation. 
JAKE: That's great! Thanks, Dad. I bet we'll have a great time. 
SISKO: I know we will. 
[Commander's office]
KIRA: Let's see. We have a Bolian freighter due in day after tomorrow. We'll be outfitting another group of settlers leaving for New Bajor. You know, I heard their new irrigation system is really something to see. When you get to the Gamma Quadrant, you ought to take a look. 
SISKO: Not this trip. I really want to spend some time alone with Jake. When's the Odyssey due back from the Cardassian border? 
KIRA: Three days. 
SISKO: It's a shame I'll have to miss your reunion with Captain Keogh. 
DAX: Don't you find him just a little arrogant? 
SISKO: Funny, he said the same thing about you. 
DAX: Did he. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Commander, your son's here to see you. 
SISKO: Send him in. He's really looking forward to this trip. 
(Jake enters) 
JAKE: Dad, guess what? I was talking to Nog and it turns out he's having trouble coming up with a science project, so I told him he could be my partner. 
KIRA: We can finish this up later. 
(Kira and Dax leave) 
SISKO: Partner? 
JAKE: We asked Mrs O'Brien and she said it would be okay, so I invited Nog to come with us to the Gamma Quadrant. 
SISKO: Now hold on a second, Jake-o. 
JAKE: Dad, if Nog doesn't get a good grade on this science project, he's going to drop out of school. And I can't let that happen. 
SISKO: Maybe he can help you analyse the survey information when we get back? 
JAKE: That's not enough. Mrs O'Brien said he'd have to be an equal partner. Come on, Dad. He's my friend. I have to help him. 
[Quark's cafe]
QUARK: Morn, you've been sitting here all day staring at the same drink. Talk to me. I want to help. I'm not just your bartender, I'm your friend. Whatever's wrong, I'm here for you. 
(Just before Morn can speak, Odo walks past.) 
QUARK: Hold that thought. 
[Promenade - upper level]
QUARK: Well? What did he say? 
ODO: What did who say? 
QUARK: Commander Sisko. About my idea. 
ODO: You mean using the monitors throughout the station to sell merchandise? 
QUARK: Stop torturing me, Odo. Tell me what he said. 
ODO: Guess. 
QUARK: He said yes. 
ODO: Guess again. 
QUARK: It would triple my profits. But how could he refuse? 
ODO: Maybe it's because he doesn't like you. 
QUARK: Don't be ridiculous. Major Kira's the one that doesn't like me. Sisko 
ODO: Doesn't like you either. 
QUARK: What did I ever do to him? 
ODO: Oh, I could think of one or two things. 
QUARK: One or two things. That's nothing. So do you think there's any way I can change his mind? 
ODO: Ha! 
(Odo walks off.) 
NOG: Uncle Quark? 
QUARK: Not now. 
NOG: I just wanted to tell you I'm not going to be able to work my shift for the next couple of days. 
QUARK: Why not? 
NOG: I'm going to the Gamma Quadrant with Jake and his father. 
QUARK: You're going to the Gamma Quadrant with Commander Sisko. How Lucky for you. 
(Morn is still holding that thought.) 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
NOG: I always wanted to see what the cockpit of a runabout looked like. Hey, how do you fire the phasers? 
JAKE: Nog, you promised. 
NOG: I wasn't going to touch anything. 
SISKO: Why don't the two of you stow our gear in the back while I go through pre-launch? 
NOG: I'll do it. 
(Nog grabs the bags and leaves) 
JAKE: I'll be right there. 
SISKO: Fire the phasers? 
JAKE: He was kidding. Look, Dad. I know this isn't exactly the trip you planned on, but you'll see Nog's a great guy. 
SISKO: I'm sure he is. I was just hoping that you and I could spend this time together. 
JAKE: We will. Don't worry. You won't even know Nog's along. This'll be a great trip, you'll see. 
QUARK: Ah, there you are. Where do I put my bags? 
NOG: Uncle Quark, what are you doing here? 
QUARK: What does it look like? I'm going with you. 
SISKO: Since when? 
QUARK: Really, Commander. You don't expect my nephew to go all the way to the Gamma Quadrant without proper supervision? No offence. Some of my best friends are humans. But my brother Rom isn't as liberal as I am. Let's face it, he's never been comfortable about Nog's friendship with your son. 
SISKO: You can tell Rom not to worry. I'll take good care of the boy. And I promise I won't try to corrupt him with my human values. 
QUARK: I know that, but Rom is convinced all humans look down on Ferengi, and by allowing me to come on this trip you can help prove him wrong. He is wrong, isn't he? 
JAKE: Dad, please. 
SISKO: All right. But let's get going before anyone else shows up. 
JAKE: Thanks, Dad. Thanks. 
[Forest]
(WHOOSH and over to a lush green Gamma quadrant planet for our group to go hiking on.) 
JAKE: This place is great. 
SISKO: Our preliminary surveys suggest it's a lot like Earth during the early Devonian period. A lot of plant life, fish, some insects, but no predators or large animals. Pretty, isn't it? 
QUARK: I don't see what's so pretty about it. 
NOG: I think they mean the trees and stuff. 
SISKO: Quark, this is as close to paradise as you're going to get. All you need to do is allow yourself to see it. 
QUARK: I can tell you what I see in two words. Exploitable resources. 
SISKO: I suppose you want to cut down all these trees and start strip mining the entire planet. 
QUARK: As a wise man once wrote, 'Nature decays, but latinum lasts forever.' 
(Quark scratches behind his ear) 
NOG: Rule of Acquisition number one oh two. 
QUARK: Good lad. Nog, I have some ointment in one of my bags. Get it. 
SISKO: What's the problem? 
QUARK: Oh, I get a mild reaction now and then. 
SISKO: To what? 
QUARK: Nature. 
SISKO: Perhaps you'd be more comfortable sleeping on the runabout. 
QUARK: And miss all the fun? Never. Besides, I'm really looking forward to our getting to know each other better. 
(Sisko gazes to heaven, then walks on) 
(Further on, they are resting by a tree and lots of flowers as Quark paints bright aqua ointment on his lobes.) 
QUARK: Ahh, that's much better. Now, if it only wasn't so hot. 
SISKO: I hadn't noticed. 
QUARK: It isn't the heat so much as the humidity and the insects, the stench of these flowers. I'm glad we could talk like this. There's nothing like facing the wilderness to bring people closer. 
SISKO: The answer is still no, Quark. 
QUARK: No? No to what? 
SISKO: I'm not going to allow you to sell merchandise over the station's monitors. 
QUARK: Why not? It's a brilliant idea. With my connections, I could offer a whole range of merchandise which normally couldn't be acquired in this sector. 
SISKO: Such as? 
QUARK: Collectibles. Andorian jewellry, Vulcan IDIC pins, Bolian crystalsteel. And with my low overhead, I could offer these items at a significant discount. 
SISKO: Quark, you're wasting your time, and mine. 
QUARK: Did I mention I was going to donate two percent of my net profits to the Bajoran Fund for Orphans? Three percent? 
(Sisko walks over to the boys and their tricorder.) 
SISKO: So how's it going? 
JAKE: The atmosphere's seventy seven percent nitrogen, twenty one percent oxygen, and two percent carbon dioxide. The water contains traces of copper, nickel and a little birythium. 
SISKO: You're showing a little lead there too. 
JAKE: It's from the surrounding soil, but we think it's localised. 
NOG: We're going to check other water sources just to be sure. 
SISKO: Why not wait until tomorrow. I was just about to start dinner. 
JAKE: Jumbalaya? 
SISKO: How'd you know? 
JAKE: Great. 
NOG: Jumbowhat? 
JAKE: You're going to love it. 
SISKO: The two of you did good work today. 
NOG: Yes! 
[Campsite]
(At the end of the meal, as the crickets sing and the fire crackles) 
SISKO: Anyone want some more? 
JAKE: Not me. 
NOG: Me neither, Commander, but it was very good. You know, I think I'm developing a taste for human food. 
SISKO: Quark? 
QUARK: I still say there's some dirt in the sauce. And these bugs. Look at this. They get into everything. It's disgusting. 
SISKO: I thought the Ferengis liked eating bugs. 
QUARK: Only certain bugs. Ferengi bugs. Nog, get some more ointment for the back of my neck. 
NOG: Yes, Uncle. 
SISKO: Better get a good night's sleep. We have another big day tomorrow. 
JAKE: Yeah, I want to start cataloguing the plant life first thing in the morning. You know what this reminds me of? 
SISKO: A camping trip we took on Itamish Three. 
JAKE: I don't think I remember you, me, and Mom ever having more fun together. 
SISKO: Isn't that where I taught you how to water ski? 
JAKE: Mom taught me how to water ski. 
SISKO: Yes. She was always the graceful one. You know, Jake, we really need to get away more often. 
JAKE: I'm ready whenever you are. I'm sure Nog is too. I'm joking. 
(Quark screams) 
QUARK: I'm on fire! I'm on fire! 
(He is leaping about with his right cuff ablaze. Sisko wraps a blanket over it.) 
SISKO: Quark, cover it up! Are you all right? 
QUARK: No, I'm not all right! My ears itch, my nose is running, I'm eating foreign bugs. Now look at me. One minute I'm trying to pick out a couple of bugs out of that jumbawhatsit pot, next thing I know, whoosh! 
SISKO: Quark, calm down. Look, do us all a favour. Sit down and try to stay out of trouble. 
QUARK: What did I do? 
(Nog hisses at Quark and runs off.) 
JAKE: I'd better go see if he's okay. 
(Jake follows Nog) 
QUARK: Now see what you've done. 
SISKO: What I've done? 
QUARK: The boy couldn't stand seeing his favourite Uncle insulted. I guess Rom was right after all. You don't like Ferengis, do you? 
SISKO: That is not true. 
QUARK: All right, name me one Ferengi you do like. Ah ha. You see? I was right. You Federation types are all alike. You talk about tolerance and understanding but you only practice it toward people who remind you of yourselves. Because you disapprove of Ferengi values, you scorn us, distrust us, insult us every chance you get. 
SISKO: Quark, I don't have to stand here and defend myself. 
QUARK: Tell me, Commander, would you allow your son to marry a Ferengi female? 
SISKO: I never thought about it. 
QUARK: Exactly my point. 
(An alien woman runs into the camp and summons an energy pulse from her chest which knocks Sisko down.) 
QUARK: Don't hurt me. 
ERIS: How many of them are there? 
QUARK: There's just the two of us. 
ERIS: Not you, the Jem'Hadar. 
SISKO: We don't know who you're talking about. We are not your enemies. 
ERIS: Then you'd better run. 
(Six or seven soldiers shimmer into view from thin air.) 
TALAK'TALAN: It's too late. You're done running. 
QUARK: This has not been a good day. 
(Later, Nog and Jake return to the deserted camp and smoking fire. Jake uses his comm. badge.) 
JAKE: Dad, this is Jake. Where are you? Dad, answer me. 
NOG: I'm telling you, Jake, something's happened to them. Maybe they were attacked by a wild animal. 
JAKE: You heard my Dad. There aren't any wild animals, just insects and plants. 
NOG: Maybe they were attacked by a vicious tree? 
JAKE: Take a look at this. 
(Footprints) 
JAKE: I don't know any trees that wear boots. 
NOG: We'd better beam up to the runabout. 
JAKE: Listen, we can't run away just 'cos we're scared. 
NOG: Hey, who said anything about being scared? I just thought the runabout would be a good place to er, to plan our next move. 
JAKE: There's nothing to plan. My Dad never would've left here without telling me first, not unless he was in some sort of trouble. We can track them with the tricorder. 
NOG: Hey! Wait for me. 
[Containment area]
(The three are in a circle of light with a low boundary. It appears to be in an underground cavern.) 
QUARK: Hey! Is anybody there? Hello! We're humanoids! We require food and water. Hello? 
SISKO: Quark, shut up. 
QUARK: (to Eris) This is your fault. They were after you, not us. Why don't you say something to them? Tell them you've never seen us before. We have nothing to do with her! This is a misunderstanding! 
SISKO: Quark. 
QUARK: I have the right to express my opinion. 
SISKO: I'm about to put my fist in your opinion. 
QUARK: You don't scare me. And you want to know why you don't scare me? Because I'm already more scared than I've ever been in my life. 
SISKO: You're not helping anything. 
QUARK: I'm not helping anything? I don't see you coming up with any ideas. Or her. 
SISKO: If she wants to help us, she will. Right now, I'd say she's even more scared than you are. 
QUARK: Believe me, she's not. 
SISKO: She's obviously been running from these people for a while. She's probably been through a lot. She doesn't know who we are, what we're about. I just hope that Jake and Nog are smart enough to stay out of sight until help gets here. 
QUARK: Trust me, I didn't raise my nephew to be a fool. He'll find the nearest dark hole and climb into it. 
SISKO: I'm not so sure about Jake. If I know him, he'll be looking for us. 
QUARK: Don't they teach you how to neutralise security fields in Starfleet? 
SISKO: I've never seen anything like this before. It seems like it's generated by 
ERIS: Don't. The security barrier will kill you. 
SISKO: Thanks for the warning. 
ERIS: I have no wish to see you hurt. 
QUARK: A lovely sentiment. 
SISKO: How did you know that the security barrier's lethal? 
ERIS: Because everything about the Jem'Hadar is lethal. 
SISKO: Anything you can tell me about them might be helpful. 
ERIS: Are you saying you've never heard of the Jem'Hadar? 
SISKO: We're not from around here. My name is Benjamin Sisko. I'm from the United Federation of Planets. We came through a wormhole to get here. Our home is thousands of light years away. 
ERIS: My name is Eris. 
SISKO: I'm glad to meet you, Eris. 
(Sisko holds out his hand and introduces Eris to the handshake.) 
SISKO: That's Quark. Tell me about the Jem'Hadar. 
ERIS: They're the most feared soldiers in the Dominion. 
QUARK: The Dominion? The Ferengi have been trying to open up trade negotiations with the Dominion for almost a year now. We've never heard of the Jem'Hadar. 
ERIS: Then you've been fortunate. Negotiations with the Dominion can be a dangerous thing. 
SISKO: If it's so dangerous, why would anyone do business with them? 
ERIS: The Dominion decides that you have something that they want and then they come and take it by negotiation or by force. Believe me, I know. I've seen it happen on my own world. Kurill Prime was offered entry into the Dominion. They thought our telekinetic powers would be useful to them. 
SISKO: Back there in the camp, that's what you used to knock me down. 
ERIS: When Kurill refused the Dominion's offer, they sent in the Jem'Hadar. They destroyed our communications centre, they executed our leaders, and before we realised it, they had seized control of the entire planet. 
SISKO: How did you manage to escape? 
ERIS: I was on a freighter returning home when the attack occurred. We fled, but they came after us. 
SISKO: Why? 
ERIS: My mother was an outspoken opponent of the Dominion. I guess they wanted to make an example of my family. 
SISKO: That thing they put around your neck 
ERIS: It suppresses my telekinetic abilities. Without it, I might be able to break through the security barrier. 
SISKO: Then we'll just have to find a way to get this collar off. 
ERIS: Even if we do get past the barrier, no one ever escapes from the Jem'Hadar. 
SISKO: Luckily for us, they seem as sure about that as you do. Look around you. They've placed the three of us in the same containment field. I've never seen more than four guards on duty at any one time. As far as I can tell, there's only this single containment field between us and freedom. They're overconfident, and that's what's going to help us get out of here. Maybe if I can pry off that casing, I can get at the locking mechanism. (her brooch) May I? 
ERIS: Of course. 
[Forest]
(Morning has broken) 
NOG: Are you sure you know how to read that thing? 
JAKE: Pretty sure. 
NOG: Pretty sure? We've been walking for hours and you're only pretty sure? 
JAKE: Would you be quiet? I'm picking up some kind of humanoid lifeforms. (They've found a cave entrance, guarded by Jem'Hadar) 
NOG: I don't know who they are, but they don't look friendly. 
JAKE: I wish we could get closer. 
NOG: I don't think they'll look any friendlier close up. 
[Containment area]
QUARK: Hello! I know someone must be listening to me out there. 
ERIS: If we escape, do we have to take him with us? 
SISKO: He's not so bad. 
QUARK: Whoever's in charge, you're missing a very lucrative opportunity. 
ERIS: Doesn't he realise he's not accomplishing anything? 
SISKO: Don't be so sure. We need to know what the Jem'Hadar plan to do with us. Which means we need to get their attention. 
QUARK: Did I mention I happen to be a close personal friend of the Grand Nagus. He's a very powerful person. 
SISKO: And if there's one thing I know 
TALAK'TALAN: That's enough. 
SISKO: It's that Quark is hard to ignore. 
(The Jem'Hadar enters the containment area) 
SISKO: I'm Commander Benjamin Sisko of the United Federation of Planets. I want to know why we are being held here. 
TALAK'TALAN: That's not my concern. 
SISKO: Then why won't you let us go? 
TALAK'TALAN: Because the Founders don't want you released. 
SISKO: And who are the Founders? 
TALAK'TALAN: That's not your concern. 
QUARK: This isn't getting us anywhere. Commander, allow me. How would you like a thousand cases of tulaberry wine. 
(Talak'talan's grabs Quark and starts crushing his ribcage.) 
TALAK'TALAN: Don't bother, Commander. I'm not going to do any permanent damage. 
(He throws Quark away.) 
SISKO: If the Founders are the ones who give the orders, I want to meet them. 
TALAK'TALAN: Those aren't my orders. 
ERIS: He can't take you to the Founders because they don't exist. They're a myth. 
TALAK'TALAN: The Founders exist. They created the Dominion. 
SISKO: And the Jem'Hadar are their servants? 
TALAK'TALAN: A Ferengi and a human. I was hoping the first race I'd meet from the other side of the anomaly would be the Klingons. 
SISKO: I'm sorry to disappoint you. 
TALAK'TALAN: It's too late for apologies. The Dominion will no longer stand by and allow ships from your side to violate our territory. I hear that Klingons are effective warriors. What's that weapon they're so fond of? The bat'leth? 
SISKO: I am not interested in discussing the Klingons. 
TALAK'TALAN: All right. Then what about the Cardassians? Are you satisfied with the treaty your Federation made with them? It seems a tactical error. 
SISKO: How do you know so much about our side of the galaxy? 
TALAK'TALAN: We gain more knowledge every day, and now we have you to help us learn more. 
SISKO: I don't plan on telling you anything. 
TALAK'TALAN: I won't be the one asking the questions. 
SISKO: Who will? 
TALAK'TALAN: I was really hoping to meet a Klingon. 
(Talak'talan leaves and reestablishes the containment field.) 
QUARK: Well, now that we're all friends, I feel much better. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
(Jake and Nog beam up) 
NOG: I hope this works. 
JAKE: You wanted a plan, I came up with a plan. Now let me concentrate. Computer, scan the region around our base camp for human and Ferengi lifesigns. 
COMPUTER: One human and one Ferengi located. 
NOG: That's them. 
JAKE: I told you this would work. Computer, lock onto the two lifeforms and beam them up. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. Subjects are located inside a spatial distortion field. 
NOG: I knew it couldn't be that easy. 
JAKE: Maybe we'd better go back to the station for help. 
NOG: Good idea. Computer, fly us back to the station. 
COMPUTER: Please restate command. 
JAKE: Computer, disengage autopilot and lay in a course back to the wormhole. 
COMPUTER: Enter authorisation code. 
NOG: Go ahead. What are you waiting for? 
JAKE: I don't know the authorisation code. 
COMPUTER: Vessel approaching from the planet's surface, bearing one seven three mark two eight one. 
NOG: Computer, evasive manoeuver! Fire phasers! Launch torpedoes and escape pods! 
JAKE: Computer, display the approaching ship on the monitor. 
(The blip whizzes off the screen.) 
JAKE: Computer, where'd the ship go? 
COMPUTER: The vessel has entered warp, bearing one seven one mark two five nine. 
NOG: Maybe they didn't see us. 
JAKE: Maybe we're not what they're after. 
NOG: So what do we do now? 
JAKE: We'll have to shut down the autopilot. 
NOG: How do we do that? 
JAKE: I guess we'll find out how much I learned working for Chief O'Brien. 
[Ops]
KIRA: Lieutenant, what's the eta of the Odyssey? 
DAX: They're due in eight hours. I'm reading elevated neutrino levels from the wormhole. 
KIRA: On screen. 
(An alien ship comes through) 
KIRA: Hail them, Lieutenant. 
DAX: They're not answering. 
KIRA: Shields up. Go to yellow alert. 
(Talak'talan beams in) 
O'BRIEN: Computer, intruder in Ops. Activate a level three containment field. 
KIRA: I'm Major Kira Nerys, First Officer of this station. You'll have to excuse the containment field, but around here it's customary to identify yourself before transporting into someone else's command centre. 
TALAK'TALAN: I'm Third Talak'Talan of the Jem'Hadar. I'm here to inform you that your commander has been detained for questioning by the Dominion. 
KIRA: Detained? For how long? 
TALAK'TALAN: Indefinitely. Commander Sisko will serve as an example of what happens to anyone who interferes with the Dominion. 
KIRA: What kind of interference are you talking about? 
TALAK'TALAN: Coming through the anomaly is interference enough. Unless you wish to continue to offend the Dominion, I suggest you stay on your side of the galaxy. 
DAX: You're making a mistake if you think that detaining Commander Sisko will stop us from exploring the Gamma Quadrant. 
TALAK'TALAN: We anticipated that response. 
(He walks through the forcefield.) 
O'BRIEN: Security team to Ops. 
TALAK'TALAN: Here's a list of vessels we've destroyed for violating our territory. 
(And puts down a small PADD.) 
KIRA: Where did you get this datapadd. 
TALAK'TALAN: From the Bajoran colony on our side of the anomaly. You should be proud. I hear they fought well for a spiritual people. I hope we won't have to repeat this lesson. 
(Talak'Talan beams out) 
KIRA: Chief, lock a tractor beam onto his ship. 
O'BRIEN: Acknowledged. I can't establish a lock, Major. They must have some kind of deflectors we haven't seen before. 
DAX: They've entered the wormhole. We've lost them. 
[Containment area]
SISKO: Got it. It looks like some kind of multiple locking system. 
ERIS: Even if I can break through the security barrier, how do you plan to get off the planet? 
SISKO: We'll try to find my son. We'll use his communicator to signal my ship and transport us off the surface. 
ERIS: And then what? 
SISKO: You're welcome to come back to the station with us. I'm sure Starfleet would like to hear anything you have to tell them about the Dominion. 
ERIS: I'd be glad to tell them all I know. 
SISKO: Quark, maybe you'd better take a look at this. 
QUARK: Sure, Quark, be quiet. Quark, stand watch. Quark, pick a lock. All you ever do is order me around. You know, Commander, I think I've figured out why humans don't like Ferengis. 
SISKO: Not now, Quark. 
QUARK: The way I see it, humans used to be a lot like Ferengi. Greedy, acquisitive, interested only in profit. We're a constant reminder of a part of your past you'd like to forget. 
SISKO: Quark, we don't have time for this. 
QUARK: But you're overlooking something. Humans used to be a lot worse than the Ferengi. Slavery, concentration camps, interstellar wars. We have nothing in our past that approaches that kind of barbarism. You see? We're nothing like you. We're better. Now, if you'll excuse me, I have a lock to pick. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
(Isolinear chips and stuff are all over the floor) 
JAKE: This shouldn't be so hard. I just watched Chief O'Brien run a maintenance check on the Mekong's navigational array a couple of weeks ago. 
NOG: From the looks of things, you haven't been watching very closely. Try that one. 
JAKE: I don't think that's it. 
NOG: Try it. I have a hunch. 
JAKE: All right. Let's see. 
(Red alert) 
COMPUTER: Warning. Warp core collapse in ten seconds. Nine, eight 
NOG: Put it back! Put it back! 
COMPUTER: Seven, six. Warp core containment field stabilised. 
NOG: Sorry. 
JAKE: Wait a second. he G and N relay. 
NOG: What about it? 
JAKE: I think O'Brien said something about the autopilot being connected to the guidance and navigational relay. If I could just find it. It was this round thing, with this square part on the bottom. I think I got it. 
NOG: Is that it? 
JAKE: I hope so. Computer, what's the status on the autopilot? 
COMPUTER: The automatic pilot system is not functional. 
NOG: All right! Yes! 
JAKE: Lay in a course for the wormhole at warp eight. 
COMPUTER: Unable to comply. The automatic pilot system is not functional. 
NOG: Now what? 
JAKE: I guess we'll have to try and fly it ourselves. 
[Ops]
(There's a Galaxy class ship docked at the station.) 
KEOGH: (silver-haired veteran) Starfleet's orders are simple. Traffic through the wormhole will be suspended until the Odyssey can investigate the Jem'Hadar's threat. 
DAX: What about Benjamin and the others? 
KEOGH: Don't worry, Lieutenant. Commander Sisko's return is a top priority. 
DAX: If you're going to try to rescue them, then we're coming with you. 
KEOGH: Are you sure that's wise? With the exception of Major Kira and Mister O'Brien, none of you have had much combat experience. 
BASHIR: We fought the Maquis. 
KEOGH: All the Maquis had were a pair of lightly armed shuttlecraft. I expect the Dominion to have sharper teeth. 
KIRA: Well then you're going to need all the help you can get. 
KEOGH: Mister O'Brien, can you equip the two remaining runabouts with extra banks of photon torpedoes? 
O'BRIEN: I already started retrofitting their weapons systems. They should be ready in a few hours. 
DAX: It should take at least that long to offload all the nonessential personnel from the Odyssey. You were planning on doing that, weren't you? 
KEOGH: Lieutenant, have you ever thought of serving on a starship? 
DAX: I'm happy where I am. 
KEOGH: Good. Major, be prepared to leave at thirteen hundred hours. I'll be aboard the Odyssey if you need me. 
KIRA: Yes, sir. 
(Keogh leaves) 
BASHIR: I thought you said Keogh didn't like you. 
DAX: Did I say that? 
KIRA: Come on. You heard him. We've got three hours. 
[Corridor]
(Odo is briefing one Bajoran and one Starfleet security officer) 
ODO: Station security is to be on maximum alert. I want random patrols of all corridors and periodic sensor sweeps of every level. Now, the Provisional government has agreed to send us a detachment of extra security personnel. This outlines how I want them deployed. 
KIRA: Odo. 
ODO: Major. That'll be all. 
(Security leaves) 
KIRA: Captain Keogh has moved up our departure time. We have to be ready in fifteen minutes. 
ODO: I'm on my way to meet Chief O'Brien and Lieutenant Dax at the Mekong right now. 
KIRA: Are you sure that you don't want to stay and oversee things here on the station? I don't know what we're going to come up against once we're there. Your duties do not require you to come with us. 
ODO: I realise that, but I figure while you and the others are trying to rescue Sisko and the boys, someone ought to be there to look out for Quark. 
KIRA: Quark? You're joking. I thought you hated Quark. 
ODO: I do. But I'd rather see him in jail than in the hands of the Dominion. Believe me, Major, if anything happened to him, you'd miss him too. 
KIRA: I'd be willing to take that chance. But not today. I'd better get to the Orinoco. Odo? Keep your head down. 
ODO: Make sure you do the same. 
[Runabout Orinoco]
(WHOOSH as the big ship goes through with it's tiny escorts.) 
BASHIR: Where's the welcoming committee? 
[Runabout Mekong]
DAX: Maybe the Jem'Hadar were bluffing. 
ODO: Or maybe it's a trap. 
KEOGH [OC]: Odyssey to runabouts. 
O'BRIEN: Go ahead, Captain. 
OFFICER [on monitor]: Preliminary tachyon scans are negative. 
KEOGH [on monitor]: We're not detecting anything on long range scanners, but for all we know, the Dominion could have cloaking technology. 
DAX: We'll keep our eyes open, sir. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
NOG: I'm telling you, Jake, we should go to warp. 
JAKE: First let me get the hang of flying at impulse. 
NOG: How hard can it be? 
JAKE: Are you kidding? You think making course corrections manually is easy? 
NOG: But at this speed, it'll take weeks to get home. 
JAKE: Actually, it'll take about five years. 
(The runabout weaves a drunken course through space) 
NOG: Can't we reassemble the autopilot? 
JAKE: If Chief O'Brien taught me anything, it's that it's a lot easier taking things apart than put them back together. 
COMPUTER: Warning. Three ships coming out of warp. 
NOG: Where? Where? 
JAKE: Right there. 
(It's the Odyssey and the runabouts) 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Mekong to Rio Grande. 
JAKE: Hey, Chief! It's me, Jake. 
KIRA [OC]: Jake, are we glad to find you. Where's your father? 
JAKE: He and Quark were taken prisoner. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Jake, come to a full stop. I'll beam aboard. 
(O'Brien beams in) 
O'BRIEN: Having trouble getting her out of orbit? 
NOG: How'd you know? 
JAKE: Chief, we have to go back and save my dad. 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry, son. That's exactly what we're going to do. 
[Containment area]
(Quark is still working on Eris' collar.) 
QUARK: This is a very sophisticated device. Most telepathic suppressors I've seen have been much bulkier. You know, there might be a market for this in the Alpha Quadrant. 
ERIS: You're hurting me. 
QUARK: I'm sorry, but I don't have much to work with. 
ERIS: You've been at it for hours. 
QUARK: If you would just stay still, I'd be 
(and the collar unlocks) 
QUARK: Done. 
SISKO: All right, let's get out of here. 
ERIS: Stand back. 
(She sends an energy globe at the circle and the forcefield is removed. A soldier runs in and Sisko knocks him down, grabs his rifle and shoots him.) 
SISKO: Quark, move it! 
(Sisko throws the rifle to Quark, who also picks up the collar. Another Jem'Hadar shimmers in so Quark shoots that one.) 
SISKO: Thanks. 
QUARK: You're welcome. 
SISKO: Let's go. 
[Runabout Orinoco]
BASHIR: Major, I'm picking up something on forward scanners. 
KEOGH [OC]: Odyssey to runabouts. 
[Odyssey Bridge]
KIRA [OC]: Go ahead, Odyssey. 
KEOGH: We're detecting three incoming ships in attack formation. 
OFFICER: Shields up. Going to Red alert. 
[Runabout Mekong]
DAX: Odo, take the helm. I'll handle the targeting controls. 
ODO: Very good. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
O'BRIEN: Captain, this is the Rio Grande. 
KEOGH [OC]: Go ahead. 
O'BRIEN: Half the systems on this ship are disabled. I'm going to have to break formation. 
KEOGH [on monitor]: Understood. Return to the wormhole. We'll try to screen you from enemy fire. 
JAKE: Well what about my dad? 
O'BRIEN: Captain, I'd like to see if I can get close enough to the planet to locate Commander Sisko. 
KEOGH [on monitor]: All right. 
[Odyssey Bridge]
KEOGH: But you have ten minutes, then I want you out of there. 
OFFICER: Enemy ships within range. Ready to fire at your command. 
KEOGH: Runabouts, break formation. Attack pattern Delta. 
[Runabout Orinoco]
KIRA: Here they come. 
(The wood-lice style Jem'Hadar ships arrive and the fight begins.) 
[Odyssey Bridge]
(Bangs and a lot of shaking);
OFFICER: I'm getting casualty reports from decks four, five, eight and seventeen. We also have a plasma leak in our port nacelle. 
KEOGH: Deploy damage control teams. 
OFFICER: Aye, sir. 
KEOGH: Keogh to runabouts. 
KIRA [OC]: Go ahead. 
KEOGH: They're using some kind of phased polaron beam to penetrate our shields. 
[Runabout Mekong]
DAX: Have you tried altering your harmonics to compensate? 
[Odyssey Bridge]
KEOGH: We've run through the full spectrum, but none of the frequencies were effective. Divert shield power to weapons. We'll give O'Brien five more minutes 
[Runabout Orinoco]
KEOGH [OC]: Then we're getting out of here. 
KIRA: Understood. Dax, let's see if we can take some pressure off the Odyssey. 
DAX [OC]: We're with you. 
BASHIR: Hang on. 
[Forest]
QUARK: Wait. Stop. I've got to start using one of those holosuite exercise programmes. 
ERIS: He's slowing us down. He can hide in the underbrush. We'll transport him to safety once we get to your ship. 
SISKO: No, I'm not leaving him behind. We never would've gotten away from the Jem'Hadar without him. 
QUARK: Thank you, Commander. I'm glad someone around here appreciates me. 
(And all three get beamed up) 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
JAKE: Dad! 
SISKO: This has turned into some science project, huh, Jake? 
NOG: Uncle Quark! 
QUARK: Nog, you're never going on a field trip again. 
SISKO: Take Eris back to the passenger compartment and wait there. Jake, well done. 
[Runabout Mekong]
(The Jem'Hadar ships are much bigger than the runabouts.) 
DAX: My control's are dead! 
ODO: We've lost our sensors. 
[Runabout Orinoco]
KIRA: Break off, Mekong. Initiate evasive manoeuvres. We'll lay down covering fire. 
[Runabout Mekong]
ODO: Acknowledged. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Rio Grande to Odyssey. 
[Odyssey Bridge]
O'BRIEN [OC]: We've got Sisko. 
KEOGH: Well done, Chief. 
OFFICER: Damage control team to level seven. Our tactical control systems are down. We've lost all power to phasers. 
KEOGH: Bridge to Engineering, get that port nacelle back online. 
ENGINEER [OC]: Aye, Captain. 
KEOGH: Keogh to runabouts, we've got what we came for. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
KEOGH [OC]: We'd better fall back before we (nothing) 
O'BRIEN: Their communications array must've been hit. 
SISKO: Kira, Dax, you heard him. Let's get out of here. 
[Runabout Orinoco]
BASHIR: Major, one of the Jem'Hadar ships is making a direct run at the Odyssey. 
KIRA: Move to intercept. 
(But Jem'Hadar ship impacts the Odyssey. BOOM! KaBOOM!!) 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
O'BRIEN: We were retreating. There was no need for a suicide run. 
SISKO: They're showing us how far they're willing to go. Set a course for the wormhole. 
[Runabout Rio Grande]
(Everyone is disembarking at the station) 
QUARK: Commander, wait. (re the collar) We need to talk. 
[Ops]
ERIS: I can't believe I'm on the other side of the galaxy. 
(Sisko comes out of his office, armed.) 
SISKO: You'll get used to it. Move away from her. 
ERIS: I don't understand. 
QUARK: I've been looking over this collar of yours. I thought if I replicated it, I might be able to turn a tidy profit. Imagine my surprise when I discovered there's nothing in here. It's just a complicated locking device. 
SISKO: Which means you could have used your telekinetic abilities at any time. So the question is, why didn't you? 
ERIS: You seem to already know the answer. 
SISKO: The Jem'Hadar wanted us to escape, didn't they? That was the plan all along, for us to bring you back here so that you could spy on the Federation. 
ERIS: Well done, Commander. 
SISKO: You're one of the Founders, aren't you? 
ERIS: You think the Founders would waste their time with you? 
SISKO: Constable. 
ODO: Madam, if you'll come with us 
ERIS: You have no idea what's begun here. 
(Eris taps her cuff and beams out) 
SISKO: Chief! 
O'BRIEN: I'm picking up a transporter signature but I can't trace it. She didn't rematerialise anywhere on the station. There are no ships nearby. 
BASHIR: Then where is she? 
KIRA: She'll be back. The question is who she'll bring with her? 
SISKO: If the Dominion comes through the wormhole the first battle will be fought here, and I intend to be ready for them. 

