Episode Number: 524
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Call To Arms
Call To Arms
Stardate: 50975.2
Original Airdate: 16 Jun, 1997
[Quark's cafe]
(A PADD shows a design for a Risian traditional wedding dress. Quark and Ziyal wait for a decision.) 
ROM: What do you think? 
LEETA: I don't know. What do you think? 
ROM: I like it. Don't you? 
LEETA: Rom, it's two handkerchiefs and a loincloth. 
ROM: I suppose we could lose the handkerchiefs. 
LEETA: Ferengi tradition or no Ferengi tradition, I am not going to be naked at my wedding. 
ROM: Who said anything about naked? You'll still have the loincloth. 
LEETA: Please show us something else. 
GARAK: There is nothing else. I've shown you one hundred and fifty three different wedding dresses, from Tellarite modern to Risian traditional, and you've hated them all. 
LEETA: I liked number thirty eight. 
ROM: Number thirty eight? It had more layers than a Baduvian tapestry. 
LEETA: It was elegant. 
ROM: It was bulky. 
ZIYAL: I like sixty four. 
LEETA: Sixty four? 
ROM: Eeeesh. 
GARAK: Well, at least they agree on something. 
ZIYAL: Why don't you just let Garak design a dress on his own? You know whatever he comes up with will be beautiful. 
GARAK: My dear, I find your blind adoration both flattering and disturbing, but she does have a point. 
QUARK: Leeta, that fifteen minute break you asked for was up an hour ago. 
ROM: Brother, what do you think of this dress? 
QUARK: I don't want to think about it. All I know is that any marriage where the female is allowed to speak and wear clothing is doomed to failure. Your dabo table awaits. 
(Sisko and O'Brien walk past on the upper Promenade.) 
LEETA: There he is. Let's talk to him. 
ROM: Now? 
LEETA: Now, Rom. 
[Promenade - upper level]
O'BRIEN: Keiko and the kids will be a lot safer on Earth than they are here. They've only been gone two days and I miss them already. 
SISKO: Still, don't you feel better knowing they're out of harm's way? I wish I could convince Jake to visit Earth for a while. 
LEETA: Captain, can we speak to you for a moment? 
ROM: If you're not too busy. 
SISKO: Oh. Go ahead. 
ROM: Would you marry me? I mean, us. I mean, would you perform our wedding ceremony? 
LEETA: It would be a great honour to be married by the Emissary. 
ROM: It's not for another two weeks, so you'll have plenty of time to get ready. 
SISKO: I guess I'll have to start brushing up on my Bajoran. 
ROM: Me, too. 
O'BRIEN: Captain. 
SISKO: If you'll excuse me. 
(A crowd is watching for the wormhole.) 
O'BRIEN: Maybe they're not coming. 
SISKO: That would be a nice surprise. 
(WHOOSH - and a load of Dominion ships come through) 
SISKO: I'll say one thing for the Dominion, they're punctual. 
O'BRIEN: That's the fifth convoy headed to Cardassia in the last five weeks. I can only imagine how many Jem'Hadar soldiers are stationed there by now. 
SISKO: Too many. 
O'BRIEN: I wish they'd just attack and get it over with. 
SISKO: I have the feeling you're going to get your wish. 
[Sisko's quarters]
JAKE: Thanks for the invite, Dad. I haven't had a home-cooked meal since 
SISKO: Since the last time you were here. 
JAKE: Sounds about right. So, what's for dinner? 
(Sisko hands over a PADD.) 
JAKE: Ah. Can I get some salsa with that? 
SISKO: Read the headline. 
JAKE: Bajorans continue negotiations with Dominion. 
SISKO: Go on. 
JAKE: Station Commander opposes non-aggression pact. 
SISKO: And the byline. 
JAKE: By Jake Sisko. 
SISKO: You should've warned me. 
JAKE: I was waiting for the right moment. 
SISKO: The right moment was before you published the article. 
JAKE: I know. I'm sorry. But aren't you glad I got a job? 
SISKO: You mean this isn't a one-time thing? 
JAKE: Nope. I'm now an official correspondent for the Starfleet News Service. 
SISKO: What about your novel? 
JAKE: I'm not giving up on it. But this way I get to see my work in print. 
SISKO: And apparently I get to see everything I say in print too. 
JAKE: You're a public figure, Dad. You're the Captain of the most important space station in the entire Federation. You're news. 
SISKO: Don't remind me. I guess I can't stop you from doing your job. 
JAKE: Can I quote you on that? I guess not. 
[Cargo bay]
KIRA: Yamok sauce. Who'd bother to smuggle in ten thousand wrappages of Cardassian yamok sauce? Oh. Quark. That little worm, he thinks the Cardassians are going to retake the station. 
DAX: He's a Ferengi. You can't blame him for hedging his bets. But it is a lot of yamok sauce. What is a yamok, anyway? 
ODO: What would you like me to do with it? 
DAX: Major? 
KIRA: I don't care. You decide. 
DAX: Dump it. 
ODO: Very good. 
DAX: Would you mind telling me what's going on? 
KIRA: What do you mean? 
DAX: You and Odo. You've been avoiding each other for weeks. 
KIRA: Ah, it's a long story. 
DAX: Those are the best kind. 
KIRA: Odo has feelings for me. 
DAX: What kind of feelings? 
KIRA: The kind that aren't easy to talk about. 
DAX: Since when? 
KIRA: Since I don't know. Years. I just found out about it last month. 
DAX: That explains a lot. 
KIRA: It does? 
DAX: Not really. It just seemed like the right thing to say. I had no idea. 
KIRA: Neither did I. 
[Captain's office]
(Nog brings in a mug.) 
NOG: Sixty degrees Celsius. Just the way you like it. Sir, is it true what they're saying about the Romulans? 
SISKO: What do they say? 
NOG: There were some Orion free traders in Quark's last night, and they heard from a Vulcan diplomat that the Romulans signed a non-aggression pact with the Dominion. 
SISKO: A lot of rumours float around at a time like this, Cadet. Just don't forget the one hundred ninetieth Rule of Acquisition. 
NOG: Hear all, trust nothing. Good advice, sir. 
(Nog leaves.) 
SISKO: The Romulans. Sisko to Dax. 
DAX [OC]: Dax here. 
SISKO: Put me through to Starfleet Intelligence. 
[Wardroom]
WORF: The Romulans! I always knew they were without honour. Now they have proven it. 
BASHIR: When did they sign the treaty? 
SISKO: Yesterday. 
O'BRIEN: They must be desperate to side with the Dominion. 
SISKO: Technically they're not siding with anyone. It's a non-aggression pact. 
KIRA: Which means if the Dominion attacks, they just sit by and do nothing. 
ODO: The Romulans, the Miradorn, the Tholians. The Dominion is making impressive inroads in the Alpha Quadrant. 
DAX: And the Bajorans are still talking to them? 
KIRA: My people will never sign that treaty, or any other agreement with the Dominion. 
O'BRIEN: Meanwhile, more Jem'Hadar ships come through the wormhole every week. 
WORF: It must stop. 
SISKO: It's going to stop. I've talked to Starfleet Command. They've agreed that no more Dominion ships can be allowed into the Alpha Quadrant. 
O'BRIEN: How do we keep them out? 
SISKO: We're going to mine the entrance to the wormhole, prevent the Dominion from bringing any more reinforcements to Cardassia. 
ODO: If we try to stop those convoys, it may very well start a war. 
SISKO: Maybe so. But one thing is certain. We're losing the peace, which means a war could be our only hope. 
[Dax's quarters]
O'BRIEN: What about pulse mines? We could equip them with variable geometry detonators. 
DAX: Not good enough. Dominion ships can wait at the mouth of the wormhole and pick them off one by one. 
O'BRIEN: What if we cloaked them? 
DAX: Cloaking doesn't always work against the Dominion. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe cloaked ships don't, but I'm thinking a lot smaller. Each mine no more than a metre across. 
DAX: Mines that small don't have a lot of power. It would take dozens of them to disable a warship. We'd run out of mines before they ran out of ships. Rom, are you here? 
ROM: Cloak. Small. Dozens. I heard every word. 
O'BRIEN: Well, something's wrong. You haven't touched your food. 
ROM: It's my stomach. Ever since Captain Sisko agreed to officiate at our wedding, I haven't had much of an appetite. 
O'BRIEN: I thought you wanted Captain Sisko to marry you. 
ROM: I did. But now that he's said yes, it's become so real. I'm going to get married! 
DAX: Not for another two weeks. And in the meantime, we have work to do. 
ROM: But what if Leeta turns out to be just like Nog's mother? What if I can't make her happy? What if this is the biggest mistake of my life? What if 
O'BRIEN: Rom. 
ROM: Self-replication. That's the only answer. 
DAX: Self-replication? 
ROM: If the mines are going to be small, we'll need a lot of them. And we'll need a way to replace them quickly if the Jem'Hadar try to blast their way through. And, uh-oh. I forgot to request new quarters. Mine are too small. Where are Leeta and I going to live? 
DAX: Rom, I think you're on to something. 
ROM: I know I am. I've measured them three times. There's nowhere to put her prayer mandala. 
O'BRIEN: We could equip each mine with a replicator unit. 
DAX: No matter how many the Jem'Hadar destroy, there'd always be more. 
O'BRIEN: We'll program them to swarm detonate. Twenty or thirty mines to each ship. 
ROM: The only problem is you'll have to wait until the entire minefield is deployed before you activate it. Otherwise the proximity sensors could cause premature detonation. Where's Leeta going to put all her clothes? I don't have enough closet space. 
DAX: I'd better go talk to Sisko. 
O'BRIEN: I'll go draw up some specs. 
ROM: I've got to go to waste extraction. 
[Ops]
KIRA: What did Starfleet Command say? 
WORF: How many reinforcements will they be sending us? 
KIRA: And how soon will they get here? 
SISKO: We're not getting any reinforcements. We'll have to make due with what we've got. 
KIRA: What we've got isn't enough. 
WORF: Sir, as Strategic Operations Officer, I cannot guarantee the safety of this station if a Dominion fleet attacks. 
SISKO: Your concerns are noted, Commander. 
KIRA: What's Starfleet thinking? They must have given you a reason for denying your request. 
SISKO: They did. 
KIRA: And? 
SISKO: And I'm not at liberty to discuss it. Let's just say Starfleet's resources will be needed elsewhere. 
KIRA: What could be more important than defending this station? 
WORF: That is not for us to decide. What are our orders, Captain? 
SISKO: Deploy the minefield and prepare for a Dominion attack. 
KIRA: And when the attack comes? 
SISKO: Then we are to defend the station until the mines are in position and the field has been activated. 
WORF: The Defiant will be unable to raise shields or cloak while deploying the mines. She will be an easy target. 
SISKO: Then it's up to DS9 to defend her. If the Dominion wants to stop the Defiant, they'll have to come through us. 
[Security office]
KIRA: You wanted to see me, Constable? 
ODO: Major, I'd like your permission to terminate all outgoing subspace communications. 
KIRA: You really think that's necessary? 
ODO: This is no time for security leaks. I've prepared a number of false messages we can transmit at random intervals so there won't be any noticeable drop in our outgoing subspace traffic. 
KIRA: I'll see what I can do. 
ODO: I'd appreciate that. Major, there's something you ought to know. 
KIRA: What's that? 
ODO: I've been thinking about asking out you to dinner. 
KIRA: I've been expecting something like this. 
ODO: I could tell. You've looked a little uncomfortable around me lately. 
KIRA: You've looked a little uncomfortable yourself. 
ODO: Which is why I wanted you to know I'm not going to do it. No dinner invitations, no flowers, no attempts at changing the nature of our relationship. Until the current crisis has passed, we both need our minds to be clear, to be free of any unnecessary distractions. 
KIRA: That's probably a good idea. So, for now, all we need to concern ourselves with is deploying the minefield, maintaining station security and preparing ourselves for a possible invasion. 
ODO: Well, I don't know about you, but I feel more comfortable already. 
Captain's log, stardate 50975.2. The next Jem'Hadar convoy is due in five days, but our efforts to mine the wormhole have already provoked a response from the Dominion, who have sent their Vorta Ambassador, Weyoun, to speak with me. 
[Wardroom]
SISKO: What can I do for you, Weyoun? 
WEYOUN: Captain Sisko. I'll make this brief. We know all about the minefield. 
SISKO: I assumed you'd find out sooner or later. 
WEYOUN: As I see it, you have two choices. Either you remove the mines or we will take this station from you and remove them ourselves. 
SISKO: I appreciate your directness. Now let me be direct with you. The mines stay. I will not allow any more Dominion reinforcements through the wormhole. 
WEYOUN: You will not allow? 
SISKO: You heard me. 
WEYOUN: I can see how that might be your first reaction. But you and I are reasonable men, and surely reasonable men can come to some sort of mutually acceptable compromise. 
SISKO: I didn't think the Dominion believed in compromise. 
WEYOUN: It saddens me to see how deeply you misunderstand us. All the Dominion wants is to peacefully co-exist with its neighbours. 
SISKO: Then why the continued military buildup? Why the weekly convoys of troops and ships from the Gamma Quadrant? 
WEYOUN: It's the Cardassians. Don't get me wrong. I'm pleased to call them allies, but as you know they've just been though a terrible war with the Klingons. I'm afraid it's left them somewhat jittery. So they're understandably concerned with insuring the sovereignty of their borders. And since they're now members of the Dominion, their concerns have become our concerns. 
SISKO: I would think by now you have more than enough ships to defend Cardassia. 
WEYOUN: You may think that, and I may think that, but the Cardassians 
SISKO: Oh, yes, I know. They're jittery. 
WEYOUN: You see our dilemma. 
SISKO: I'm beginning to. 
WEYOUN: What if we agreed to limit our convoys to cargo ships, construction units, civilian aid? Things that will help them get their economy back on its feet. Did you know when we arrived, children were starving on Cardassia Prime? It was heartbreaking. 
SISKO: I had no idea things were so bad. 
WEYOUN: The Cardassians are a very proud people. They don't want to admit to outsiders how dire their situation really is. So, are we agreed? You remove the mines and we restrict our convoys to medical and economic assistance. 
SISKO: That sounds reasonable. I'd have to discuss it with Starfleet first, of course. 
WEYOUN: I'm sure they'll do whatever Benjamin Sisko recommends. For my part, I will personally speak to the Founders to secure our end of the bargain. 
SISKO: What about Gul Dukat? 
WEYOUN: Ah. He'll be furious, at first. But we've developed a fine working relationship, and I'm sure I can help him to see the wisdom of our decision. 
SISKO: I will leave it in your capable hands. 
WEYOUN: You won't be disappointed. This is a momentous day. You and I have just taken the first step towards insuring peace between our peoples. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: They're going to attack. 
BASHIR: Are you sure? 
SISKO: I am positive. The moment I mentioned that we weren't going to remove the mines, we both knew there'd be war. Everything else was just words, a feeble attempt to lull the other side into a false sense of security. I didn't buy it, and I'm sure Weyoun didn't either. 
WORF: How soon? 
SISKO: As soon as they can get their fleet from Cardassia. I'd say as early as tomorrow. Which means we have to finish the minefield today. 
DAX [on monitor]: We need more time. 
SISKO: You don't have it. 
DAX [on monitor]: We'll do all we can. Dax out. 
SISKO: General, take your ship and patrol the border. At the first sight of the Dominion ships 
MARTOK: I will sound the alarm. 
SISKO: Don't engage the enemy. Get back to the station as soon as you can. We're going to need you here. 
MARTOK: Captain, fighting at the border or fighting them here at the station makes no difference to me. 
(Martok leaves.) 
BASHIR: You don't think Starfleet could be persuaded to send us a few more ships? Say fifty? 
SISKO: I'm afraid not, Doctor. We're on our own. 
BASHIR: In that case, I'd better go and get the Infirmary ready. 
(Bashir leaves.) 
SISKO: Mister Worf, see to the weapons array and issue combat assignments. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(Worf leaves.) 
SISKO: Major. 
KIRA: I'll contact the Bajoran Militia, see if they can spare a few ships. 
SISKO: Forget the Militia. I need you to contact the Council of Ministers. Tell them I need to meet with them immediately. 
KIRA: As a Starfleet Captain or as the Emissary of the Prophets? 
SISKO: Both. 
KIRA: That'll get their attention. 
SISKO: Remember the non-aggression pact the Dominion offered Bajor a few weeks ago? 
KIRA: They're still debating it in the Council of Ministers. It'll never pass. 
SISKO: It'll pass if the Emissary endorses it. 
KIRA: You want Bajor to sign a treaty with the Dominion? Why? 
SISKO: Major, when I came here, my orders were to protect Bajor and help your people rebuild from the Occupation. 
KIRA: We've succeeded. 
SISKO: And I refuse to see everything we've accomplished torn down again. The sad truth is, Major, if there is a war now, the Federation can't guarantee the safety of Bajor. Which means Bajor must be kept out of the fighting. I don't like this any more than you do, Major, but it's Bajor's only chance for survival. 
Captain's log, supplemental. Bajor has signed the non-aggression pact with the Dominion. All Bajoran personnel have been ordered to evacuate the station. As someone once said, these are the times that try men's souls. 
[Promenade]
ZIYAL: You're sure you won't come with me? 
GARAK: I don't think I'd be very welcome on Bajor. 
ZIYAL: I'm not going to be very popular there, either. 
GARAK: My dear, you're half-Bajoran, so at least half of you is going to be accepted. I'm sure that Major Kira's friends will take good care of you. 
ZIYAL: Well, what's going to happen to you? 
GARAK: Well, let me tell you a story. I once knew a Cardassian, a dashing, handsome young man with a promising career. But one day, through no fault of his own, he found himself exiled and alone, with nowhere to turn. But did he give up? No. He struck upon a brilliant plan. Rather than fleeing for the rest of his life, he sought shelter in the one place no one expected him to go. In a stronghold of his people's most hated enemies. There, surrounded by hostile strangers, he built a life, and there, against all odds, against the merciless logic of the Universe itself, he thrived. 
ZIYAL: By becoming the greatest tailor in the galaxy. 
GARAK: And the moral of the story, my dear, is to never underestimate my gift for survival. 
(They kiss, then she joins the rest of the Bajorans going through the airlock.) 
[Wardroom]
(It's the wedding day, and the happy couple are both in their normal clothes. Quark, Nog and an emotional dabo girl are the witnesses.) 
SISKO: Boray pree hadokee. Tolata impara boresh. Preeya Rom, preeya Leeta. Abrem varo atel. You may kiss the bride. 
NOG: Congratulations, Father! Moogie. 
LEETA: Thank you, Nog. 
SISKO: Well, if you'll excuse me, I have business to attend to. 
(Sisko leaves.) 
QUARK: Well, that was the most pathetic excuse for a wedding ceremony I've ever seen. No bridal auction, no latinum dances, and the bride? The bride was severely overdressed. 
ROM: Nevertheless, you're very happy for us, aren't you, brother. 
QUARK: Overjoyed. I give it two months. 
(Quark leaves with his dabo girl.) 
LEETA: Oh, Rom! 
ROM: No time for that. Nog, are Leeta's bags packed? 
NOG: They're already on the shuttle. 
LEETA: You mean, we're leaving? 
ROM: No. You're leaving. First Minister Shakaar was very clear. All Bajorans must leave the station for their own safety. 
LEETA: But what about you? 
ROM: My job is here with Chief O'Brien. 
LEETA: Then I'm not going either. 
ROM: You see that, Nog. We've barely finished saying our vows and we're already having our first fight. We're really married! You've got to go, Leeta. The problems of two newlyweds are but a small thread in the tapestry of galactic events. You might not understand that today, or even tomorrow, but some day you will. So get on that shuttle and don't look back. Nog, take your Moogie to the docking ring. 
NOG: Nice speech, Dad. 
(Nog and Leeta leave.) 
ROM: I thought so. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Computer, what's the status of programme Sisko one nine seven? 
COMPUTER: All necessary modifications have been completed. Programme Sisko one nine seven ready for implementation on your command. 
NOG [OC]: Ops to Captain Sisko. Sir, we're receiving a message from the Cardassian border. It's General Martok. 
[Ops]
SISKO: On screen. 
NOG: Aye, sir. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: Captain, we just detected a large force of Dominion ships headed your way. They should be there within the hour. 
(Static) 
WORF: Someone is jamming his transmission. 
DAMAR [on viewscreen]: Contact established. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Captain Sisko. I don't suppose you would like to surrender and avoid unnecessary bloodshed. 
SISKO: Absolutely not. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: I was hoping you'd say that. 
(Transmission ends.) 
SISKO: Battle stations. 
(Later, everyone is at their station.) 
SISKO: How much longer? 
WORF: The Dominion fleet should be in weapons range in twenty minutes. 
SISKO: Are all the Bajorans off the station? 
NOG: The last transport just left. 
SISKO: Let's hope the Dominion honours the non-aggression pact. Cadet, put me through to the Defiant. 
NOG: Yes, sir. On screen. 
DAX [on viewscreen]: Benjamin 
[Bridge]
DAX: I know what you're going to say, but we've got at least another hour of work before we can activate the minefield. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: You don't have an hour, old man. The Dominion is going to be here in less than twenty minutes. You're going to be a sitting duck. 
DAX: Then I hope you can buy us some more time. Dax out. Dax to O'Brien. 
[Defiant Launch bay]
O'BRIEN: I know, I know. Work faster. 
[Infirmary]
(Jake is handing out bags.) 
JAKE: Medical tricorder, hypospray, dermal regenerator and battlefield trauma kit. Medical tricorder, hypospray, dermal regenerator and battlefield trauma kit. 
(That's the last one.) 
JAKE: That's everyone. Now what? 
BASHIR: Now we wait until the casualties start coming in. Are you sure you're all right? 
JAKE: I'll be fine. Besides, my father won't let me stay in Ops and I promised the Federation News Service a first-hand account of the battle. 
BASHIR: You'll get it. Just remember, Bashir is spelled with an I. 
[Promenade - upper level]
(Troops are taking up defensive positions.) 
GARAK: I must say, Constable, I admire your composure. You're an island of tranquility in a sea of chaos. 
ODO: What I am is useless. My entire staff has been evacuated to Bajor. 
GARAK: I'm not feeling too terribly useful myself at this moment, but if it'd make you feel any better, you could always deputise me. 
ODO: Ha. I'm sure if the Jem'Hadar board the station, you'll make yourself useful. 
GARAK: It's ironic. When the Klingons attacked the station, Gul Dukat and I were fighting side by side. At one point he turned his back to me, and I must to admit that, for a moment, he made a very tempting target. 
ODO: You'd shoot a man in the back? 
GARAK: Well, it's the safest way, isn't it? But then I thought, 'oh, no, I can't fight all these Klingons by myself.' So I let him live. 
ODO: And now you regret it. 
GARAK: Ah, my dear Constable, before this day is over everyone on this station is going to regret it. 
[Corridor]
QUARK: Rom, I always said you were an idiot, but I never believed it more than I do at this moment. 
ROM: Brother, if you want to insult me, it's going to have to wait till later. I'm busy. 
QUARK: Busy doing what? 
ROM: Preparing perimeter defences for the attack. 
QUARK: There are dozens of engineers that could be doing that. Starfleet engineers. Humans. You should be on Bajor with your new wife. 
ROM: That's what Leeta said. 
QUARK: Well, she's right. This is not your fight. 
ROM: It's not your fight either, but I don't see you leaving. 
QUARK: I have to look out for my bar. 
ROM: And I have to look out for you. 
QUARK: Me? 
ROM: You're my brother. Whatever happens, we belong together. 
QUARK: Well, like I said, you're an idiot. 
[Ops]
NOG: On screen, Captain. 
SISKO: General Martok, take a defensive position near the Defiant. They have to finish deploying those mines no matter the cost. 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: And they will. You have my word on it, Captain. 
SISKO: Mister Worf, activate the weapons array. 
WORF: Aye, sir. 
(The station sprouts offensive nodules. Kira arrives on the turbolift.) 
KIRA: Captain, as a Major in the Bajoran Militia, I must officially protest Starfleet's refusal to turn over this station to my government. 
SISKO: Your protest is duly noted. 
KIRA: Good. Now that that's over with, Kira Nerys reporting for duty. 
[Jem'Hadar battleship]
DAMAR: Weapons range in one minute. 
DUKAT: I've been waiting for this moment for five years. 
DAMAR: First, we reclaim Terok Nor, then on to Bajor. 
WEYOUN: Let's not get ahead of ourselves, or must I remind you the Dominion just signed a non-aggression pact with Bajor. 
DUKAT: The Dominion might've. I never did. 
WEYOUN: The Dominion will honour its treaty. And as a member of the Dominion, you will honour it as well. 
DUKAT: Where the Dominion leads, I will follow. 
WEYOUN: I never doubted it. 
DUKAT: Attack wings one through five head for the Defiant. Remaining ships, target the station. 
DAMAR: We're within weapons range. 
DUKAT: Well, then by all means, fire. 
[Ops]
(The station is rocking under the impacts.) 
SISKO: Mister Worf, all weapons fire at will. 
(Photon torpedoes find their targets, but nothing blows up. Phasers cut through a ship that explodes against the shield.) 
NOG: Enemy ships are closing on the Defiant. 
SISKO: Mister Worf? 
WORF: Got them. 
(KaBOOM! KaBOOM! KaBOOM!) 
[Jem'Hadar battleship]
DAMAR: Sir, the station's shields are holding. 
WEYOUN: Impossible. Federation shields have always proven useless against our weapons. 
DUKAT: I've found it wise to never underestimate the Federation's technical skill or Captain Sisko's resourcefulness. Damar, bring us around for another pass. 
[Bridge]
DAX: Chief? How much longer? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Just another couple of minutes. 
[Defiant Launch bay]
O'BRIEN: Take us to our final set of coordinates. 
[Bridge]
DAX: Helm, set course 
(BOOM. Three more ships bearing down on them.) 
DAX: Chief, I'm going to have to take evasive 
[Defiant Launch bay]
DAX [OC]: Manoeuvres. 
O'BRIEN: If you do, you risk setting off every mine on this ship. 
[Bridge]
(Exploding consoles.) 
DAX: And if I don't, we may not have a ship left. 
(A ship appears out of nowhere. KaBOOM) 
MARTOK [on viewscreen]: You may continue your work, Commander. I will handle the Jem'Hadar. 
DAX: Who says there's never a Klingon around when you need one? 
[Ops]
NOG: Shields at thirty-five percent. 
KIRA: They're preparing for another attack. 
SISKO: Mister Worf, make every shot count. 
[Jem'Hadar battleship]
DUKAT: Attack wings and batteries, concentrate your fire on section seventeen of the outer docking ring. We have to penetrate their shields. 
[Ops]
(So they do, losing at least two ships in the process.) 
NOG: We've lost main power to the shields. 
WORF: Switching to auxiliary power. But I do not know how long it will hold. 
(BOOM! We have our first 'dead' extras in Ops.) 
DAX [OC]: Defiant to Captain Sisko. 
SISKO: Dax, go ahead. 
[Bridge]
DAX: We've set the last mine. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Activate the field and return to the station. 
DAX [OC]: Yes, sir. Dax out. 
(The little bombs vanish.) 
[Jem'Hadar battleship]
DAMAR: Sir, the minefields 
DUKAT: I have eyes, Damar. 
WEYOUN: This isn't turning out quite the way I'd planned. 
DUKAT: It's a minor setback, Weyoun. Once we take the station, we'll be able to dismantle the minefield without interference. 
WEYOUN: Let's both hope your confidence is justified. 
DUKAT: Damar, signal the reserves to prepare for a final assault. 
[Ops]
KIRA: The Dominion fleet is regrouping. And I'm detecting another wave of enemy ships entering Bajoran space. 
WORF: What are your orders, Captain? 
SISKO: We've done all we can here. Notify all remaining Starfleet personnel. We're evacuating the station. 
[Airlock]
MAN: Report to the staging area. 
DAX: Worf. 
WORF: Jadzia. You should be on the Defiant. 
DAX: I heard you're not coming with us. That you've been assigned to Martok's ship. 
WORF: It might be some time before we see each other again. 
DAX: Worf, we might never see each other again. 
WORF: This is war. We must put aside our personal feelings and focus on the task at hand. 
DAX: I've been through my share of wars. I know what I have to do. But before you leave, I want you to know that the answer is yes. 
WORF: Yes? Yes to what? 
DAX: Yes, I will marry you. That's what you've wanted from the very beginning, isn't it? 
WORF: Yes. Yes it is. 
DAX: Then as soon as this is over, we'll get married. And if that doesn't give you a reason to survive, I don't know what will. 
(Dax kisses him and leaves.) 
[Promenade]
(Sisko is in front of the Temple, addressing the residents, including Morn, Quark, Odo, Kira and assorted aliens.) 
SISKO: When I first took command of this post, all I wanted was to be somewhere else, anywhere but here. But now, five years later, this has become my home and you have become my family. And leaving this station, leaving you, is one of the hardest things I've ever 
[Bridge]
SISKO [on viewscreen]: Had to do. But this war isn't over yet. I want you to know while we were keeping the Dominion occupied, a Starfleet-Klingon task force crossed the border into Cardassia 
[Promenade]
SISKO: and destroyed the Dominion shipyards on Torros Three. Your sacrifices, our sacrifices, made that victory possible. But no victory can make this moment any easier for me. And I promise I will not rest until I stand with you again, here, on this place where I belong. Sisko to Defiant. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Standing by, sir. 
SISKO: One to beam aboard. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Aye, Captain. 
[Transporter bay]
SISKO: Are we ready? 
O'BRIEN: As soon as you give the word, sir. 
SISKO: Mister Garak? 
GARAK: I'd like to come along, if you don't mind. You never know when you might need a good tailor. And the simple fact is, I have nowhere else to go. 
SISKO: Welcome aboard. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Sisko. The Dominion fleet is coming around for another attack. 
SISKO: Release docking clamps. Prepare for departure. 
(Escorted by the Rotarran, the Defiant heads out then cloaks.) 
[Ops]
(Kira and Odo return to an empty room.) 
ODO: The Defiant's away. 
KIRA: Contact the Dominion fleet. Tell them the Bajoran government welcomes them to Deep Space Nine. 
ODO: Message acknowledged. 
KIRA: Good. That's the last message this station will be sending out for a while. Computer, initiate programme Sisko one nine seven. 
COMPUTER: Program initiated. 
(Electricity runs across all the consoles and wall panels, and blows them all up.) 
KIRA: Dukat wanted the station back, he can have it. 
[Quark's]
(Morn is on his barstool.) 
QUARK: I don't want to see a drop of root beer left in this place. Break out the kanar and find me some yamok sauce. 
ROM: Rom, Assistant Manager for Policy and Clientele, reporting for work, brother. 
QUARK: What, did you think you could just walk back in here and get your old job back? 
ROM: (sotto) Actually, I'm a spy working for Starfleet, but don't tell anyone. 
QUARK: (sotto) The Federation's more desperate than I thought. (loud) I knew one day you'd come crawling back to me. Now get to work. 
ROM: Yes, brother. 
(Over in a dark corner of the bar.) 
ROM: Jake? Aren't you supposed to be on the Defiant? 
JAKE: I changed my mind. There's a war going on and I'm a reporter. This is where I belong. 
ROM: But you're not safe here. 
JAKE: The Dominion knows I'm the Emissary's son. If they hurt me they risk alienating their new friends, the Bajorans. 
ROM: I hope you're right. 
JAKE: So do I. 
[Bridge]
(Sisko has just read Jake's note) 
SISKO: What the hell is Jake thinking? 
O'BRIEN: Do we go back for him? 
SISKO: I can't risk the entire crew for one man, even though he is my son. Whether I like it or not, he is a man, capable of making his own choices. Maintain current course. 
DAX: Aye, Captain. We should rendezvous with the Federation task force in forty eight hours. 
BASHIR: And then what? 
NOG: And then we make the Dominion sorry they ever set foot in the Alpha Quadrant. 
SISKO: Cadet, you took the words right out of my mouth. 
[Promenade]
(Jem'Hadar force open the airlocks, and escort Dukat, Damar, and Weyoun.) 
DAMAR: This is a great victory for Cardassia. 
DUKAT: And the Dominion. 
WEYOUN: Over fifty ships lost, our spacedocks on Torros Three destroyed. A victory perhaps, but a costly one. 
DUKAT: We'll discuss the repercussions later. Right now, I'm going to enjoy this moment. 
(Kira, Odo and Quark approach.) 
KIRA: Gentlemen. On behalf of the Bajoran government 
QUARK: And the Promenade Merchants' Association 
KIRA: I officially welcome you to Deep Space Nine. 
DUKAT: You mean Terok Nor, don't you? 
WEYOUN: Founder, we're honoured by your decision to remain with us. 
ODO: I'm not here as a Founder. I'm the station's Chief of Security. 
WEYOUN: Whatever you say. Nevertheless, having a god walk amongst us is most gratifying. 
DUKAT: I agree. You, me, the Major, together again. It should be most interesting. Now if you'll excuse me. I'll be in my office. 
[Ops]
WEYOUN: It would appear Captain Sisko was most efficient in disabling the station. 
DUKAT: It can be repaired. And it will be. 
WEYOUN: But your first priority is to dismantle that minefield. Until we can bring in reinforcements from the Gamma Quadrant, our position here is vulnerable. 
DUKAT: I'll deal with the minefields. 
[Captain's office]
WEYOUN: I assume Captain Sisko removed or destroyed everything of value? 
DUKAT: Not everything. 
(Dukat picks up Sisko's baseball.) 
WEYOUN: What is that? 
DUKAT: A message from Sisko. 
WEYOUN: I don't understand. 
DUKAT: He's letting me know he'll be back. 
(The Defiant and the Rotarran meet up with the fleet.) 

