Episode Number: 512
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - In Purgatory's Shadow
In Purgatory's Shadow
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 10 Feb, 1997
In memory of 
Derek Garth
[Odo's quarters]
(Kira carries in a box.) 
KIRA: Where do you want me to put this? 
ODO: Wherever you can find room. 
KIRA: I bet you can't wait to get all this put together so you can start shape-shifting around the room again. 
ODO: I suppose. Though I did enjoy sleeping in a bed. 
KIRA: There's nothing to stop you from sleeping in a bed if you want to. 
ODO: Except that now when I'm asleep I tend to revert to my gelatinous state and slide onto the floor. No, the bed goes. I'm a changeling, not a solid. There's no use pretending otherwise. 
KIRA: I guess we can put all this in storage. What about these PADDS? Finding and Winning your Perfect Mate by Doctor Jennings Rain? 
ODO: I'll take that. I thought I was going to be a humanoid for the rest of my life. There were certain things 
KIRA: You don't have to explain, Odo. 
ODO: I only read the first three chapters. 
KIRA: Maybe you should finish it. 
ODO: Why waste my time? Romance is for solids. 
KIRA: You are a solid, eighteen hours a day. I'm sure there are plenty of woman on this station who would be very interested in you if you gave them a chance. 
ODO: I'll keep that in mind, Major. Right now I'd be satisfied just getting this room in order. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Kira and Odo. 
ODO: Go ahead, Commander. 
DAX [OC]: There's something we'd like you to take a look at in Ops. 
KIRA: We're on our way. 
[Ops]
SISKO: One of our listening posts in the Gamma Quadrant picked this up a few minutes ago. 
DAX: It looks like a Cardassian military code, but the computer doesn't recognise it. 
KIRA: Oh, it's Cardassian all right. But I didn't think there were any Cardassians in the Gamma Quadrant. 
SISKO: None that we know of. 
ODO: Not Elgol-red or Fifth Order military encryption. 
KIRA: Try courier code five nine. 
ODO: Strange. Most Cardassian codes use a recursive encryption algorithm, but this has a completely different coding system. 
KIRA: Bajoran Intelligence has a lot of experience breaking Cardassian codes. Why don't you send it to them? 
DAX: We did, as soon as it came in. We still haven't heard from them. 
ODO: It might take some time. 
SISKO: If someone's sending coded Cardassian messages from the Gamma Quadrant, I want to know what they're saying. Now. 
ODO: We do have an expert in Cardassian codes living on the station. 
SISKO: You're right. Dax, get me Mister Garak. 
[Replimat]
(A woman has been greeting Bashir, who is sitting with Tora Ziyal.) 
BASHIR: It's good to see you again, Carrie. 
GARAK: I'm sorry for the interruption. 
ZIYAL: Well, how did it go? 
GARAK: I'm afraid I disappointed them. I think they were hoping that message they picked up would contain the key to defeating the Dominion. You should've seen the looks on their faces when I explained to them that it was a five-year old planetary survey report. 
BASHIR: A planetary survey report? 
GARAK: That's the look exactly. 
BASHIR: I would have thought you'd be a little disappointed, too. After all, it could have been from one of the survivors of the Cardassian fleet that was lost in the Gamma Quadrant. 
GARAK: Oh, I'd given up hope of ever finding any trace of them long ago. 
ZIYAL: Really? I never saw you as the giving up type. 
GARAK: There comes a time when one must face reality, my dear. Those people are gone and are never coming back. Well, my young friends, I'd like to stay here and chat all day, but I have dresses to make, trousers to mend. It's a full life, if a trifle banal. And do tell Captain Sisko that I'd be more than happy to decode any Cardassian laundry lists that come across his desk. My dear. 
(Garak leaves.) 
ZIYAL: My father would be furious to hear me say this, but there's something about Garak I find fascinating. 
BASHIR: Yes, he has his moments. 
[Airlock]
(Garak breaks into a docked ship.) 
[Runabout]
(Bashir is waiting for him with a phaser.) 
BASHIR: Going somewhere? 
GARAK: I really must remember to stop underestimating you, Doctor. How did you know? 
BASHIR: You mean that you were lying about the contents of the message? You said you'd given up on the Cardassian survivors who were lost in the Gamma Quadrant. Well, Ziyal was right. You're not the giving up sort. 
GARAK: Very good, Doctor. You've come a long way from the naive young man I met five years ago. You've become distrustful and suspicious. It suits you. 
BASHIR: I had a good teacher. What did the message really say, Garak? 
GARAK: It was a call for help from Enabran Tain. 
BASHIR: Tain? But you said you'd seen his ship destroyed by the Dominion. 
GARAK: I did. But Enabran Tain was the head of the Obsidian order for twenty years. If he can survive that, he can survive anything. I have to find him, Doctor. I owe it to him. 
BASHIR: You don't owe Tain anything. He had you exiled from Cardassia. 
GARAK: Yes, but aside from that, we were very close. He was my mentor, and I'm not going to turn my back on him. If it'll make you feel better, you can come with me. All you have to do is come up with an excuse why you need the runabout and we could leave immediately. 
BASHIR: So let me get this straight. You want me to lie to my commanding officer, violate Starfleet regulations, and go with you on a mission into the Gamma Quadrant which will probably get us both killed? 
GARAK: I'm ready when you are. 
BASHIR: In that case, let's go. To Captain's Sisko's office. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: How do you know that the message isn't a fake? That it was really sent by Tain? 
GARAK: The code sequence was personally designed by Tain and myself. No one else knows it. Now somehow he got that message out, and I have to follow it back to its source. 
SISKO: Did the message contain any coordinates? 
GARAK: No. Most of it was identification code. The rest was just one word, alive, repeated over and over again. So it should be easy enough to triangulate the source. Captain, Tain might not be alone. There could be others. Troops from the Cardassian-Romulan fleet, survivors from the Dominion attack on New Bajor, and even crew members from the Federation ships that disappeared in the Gamma Quadrant. This is a mission of mercy. You can't ignore it. 
SISKO: I'm still not totally convinced that it's a genuine message. But I suppose there's only one way to find out. 
BASHIR: Captain, you can't let him go. It's too dangerous. 
GARAK: Your concern is touching, Doctor, but I assure you I can take care of myself. 
SISKO: Maybe you can, but you're still not going alone. 
GARAK: Doctor, I think you've just volunteered. 
SISKO: Doctor Bashir isn't going anywhere. But I do have someone else in mind. 
[Worf's cabin]
(Worf is sharpening his bat'leth with a laser.) 
DAX: I don't know what makes me angrier, That you agreed to go into the Gamma Quadrant with Garak or that I had to hear it from Sisko. 
WORF: I was going to tell you. 
DAX: When? On your way out the airlock? 
WORF: A Klingon warrior does not have to explain why he chooses to face danger, not even to his par'machkai. 
DAX: So in other words, you were afraid I'd make a scene, that I'd embarrass you. Maybe even cry. 
WORF: You are capable of anything. 
DAX: Don't worry, Worf. I won't be shedding any tears over you. 
WORF: Then you came to wish me a good death in battle. 
DAX: No. I came for these. 
(Dax takes some rods out of a drawer.) 
WORF: My Klingon operas. 
DAX: Well, you won't be using them for the next few days. Somebody might as well enjoy them. What? Something wrong? 
WORF: You have a tendency to misplace things. 
DAX: And you're afraid that I might lose your precious operas? 
WORF: Yes. 
DAX: It's a distinct possibility. If I were you, I'd hurry back. That is, if you want to keep your collection intact. 
(They kiss.) 
DAX: Have a glorious death. Or don't. It's up to you. 
[Quark's cafe]
ZIYAL: The Gamma Quadrant? You can't go to the Gamma Quadrant. 
GARAK: Oh, I can and I will. I have to. 
ZIYAL: But if something were to happen to you, I don't know what I'd do. 
GARAK: Oh, I'm sure you could find someone else to eat your meals with. Not that you'd have to. I fully intend to return. 
ZIYAL: It's not just the meals. 
GARAK: Yes, I know. I'm the only other Cardassian on the station. 
ZIYAL: It's not that either. You know that. It's just that you're intelligent and cultured and kind. 
GARAK: My dear, you're young, so I realise that you're a poor judge of character. 
ZIYAL: Why do you always make fun of my feelings for you? 
GARAK: Perhaps because I find them a but misguided. 
ZIYAL: If that's what you think, why do you spend so much time with me? 
GARAK: Because I'm exiled and alone, and a long way from home. And when I'm with you it doesn't feel so bad. 
ZIYAL: I'm glad I could help. 
GARAK: Ziyal, no matter what happens, no matter how bleak things may look, I promise you I will come back. You have my word. 
ZIYAL: I believe you. 
DUKAT: Take your hands off her! 
(Dukat grabs Garak and leans him over the railing.) 
ZIYAL: Father, no! 
DUKAT: You touch my daughter again, I'll kill you. 
ZIYAL: Father, let him go. Please. 
GARAK: Go ahead, kill me. She'll never forgive you, you know.;
QUARK: Gentlemen! Gentlemen. I don't know what's going on here, but I'm sure it's no excuse to act like a pair of Klingons. 
DUKAT: I'll act as I please, Ferengi. 
QUARK: Then you'll excuse me while I call security. I'm sure Odo will a big thrill out of having you locked up in one of his holding cells. 
ZIYAL: Father, please. 
GARAK: Public opinion seems to be running against you. (Dukat pulls him up again.) You know, I think that actually helped my back. 
QUARK: Let's go, Garak. I'll buy you a drink. 
GARAK: A pleasure as always, my dear. You do have a lovely daughter. She must take after her mother. 
(Garak leaves.) 
ZIYAL: You're wrong about Garak, Father. He's a good man. 
DUKAT: You have no idea how it pains me to hear you say that. It is good to see you again, Ziyal. 
ZIYAL: It's good to see you, too, Father. What are you doing on the station? 
DUKAT: Oh, I had a little skirmish with a Klingon battle cruiser. My ship was damaged, so I came here for repairs and to spend some time with you. And I can see we have a lot to talk about. 
[Corridor]
SISKO: Remember, this is a reconnaissance mission. You are to avoid Dominion ships at all cost. I want you back in one piece. 
WORF: What about Garak? 
SISKO: I want him back too. I don't suppose I have to tell you to keep a close eye on him. 
WORF: At the first sign of betrayal, I will kill him. But I promise to return the body intact. 
SISKO: I assume that's a joke. 
WORF: We'll see. 
[Runabout]
WORF: You want me to sponsor your application to Starfleet Academy? 
GARAK: What do you think? 
WORF: I think it is a bad idea. 
GARAK: I'd write the actual letter myself. I just need you to sign it. 
WORF: Find someone else. 
GARAK: Why? Because I'm a Cardassian? You're a Klingon, Nog is a Ferengi. Starfleet Academy is a very accepting place. 
WORF: You are not just a Cardassian. You are a spy, an assassin and a saboteur. 
GARAK: I know I've done some unfortunate things in the past, and I regret them. That's why I want to join Starfleet. Why I need to join Starfleet. I'm looking for a fresh start, a way to make up for all the damage I've done. I need to prove to myself that I can be better than I am, but I need your help, your support, to start me on my way to redemption. 
WORF: If that is how you feel, I will consider your request. 
GARAK: That's all I ask. Frankly, I think I can be quite an asset to Starfleet. With my extensive experience I could skip the lower ranks entirely and begin my career as a Commander. Maybe you should suggest that in your letter? Tell them you'd be honoured to serve under me. 
WORF: Do not play games with me. You have no desire to join Starfleet, do you? 
GARAK: No, I'm afraid I don't. 
WORF: Then why all of this deception? 
GARAK: Because lying is a skill like any other, and if you want to maintain a level of excellence, you have to practise constantly. 
WORF: Practise on someone else. 
GARAK: Mister Worf, you're no fun at all. 
WORF: Good. 
[Replimat]
DUKAT: Major, you and I have to talk. 
KIRA: Dukat, I've had a busy day. I just want to drink my coffee and 
DUKAT: I left my daughter in your care. You promised me you would look after her. I trusted you. 
KIRA: Listen, if this is about taking Ziyal to services at the Bajoran shrine. 
DUKAT: I'm not talking about exposing her to your backward superstitions. She's half-Bajoran. That's part of her cultural heritage. I understand that. I'm talking about Garak. 
KIRA: What about him? 
DUKAT: She's in love with him. 
KIRA: I wouldn't call it love. 
DUKAT: So you've known about this all along, and you've done nothing to stop it? 
KIRA: She was lonely. The last time I checked, he's the only other Cardassian living on the station. 
DUKAT: The man is a heartless, cold-blooded killer. 
KIRA: Like I said, he's a Cardassian. Your daughter is a grown woman, capable of making her own decisions. I'm not fond of Garak, and I may even think that their friendship is a mistake, but the way I see it, that's her prerogative. 
DUKAT: You did this on purpose, didn't you? 
KIRA: Did what? 
DUKAT: Allowed my daughter to associate with a man you knew was my enemy. Stood by while he whispered poison in her ear. And all under the guise of doing me a favour. 
KIRA: Dukat, let's get one thing straight. I didn't bring Ziyal to the station for you. I did it for her. Because I knew it'd be better for her to be here than being a soldier fighting in your private little war with the Klingons. 
DUKAT: Save your excuses, Major. You've betrayed me, and I promise I won't forget it. 
KIRA: If that's a threat, I'm not impressed. 
DUKAT: There was a time when Bajorans took Cardassian threats very seriously. 
KIRA: Not anymore. 
DUKAT: Good day, Major. 
KIRA: Good day. 
[Runabout]
GARAK: I don't see why these runabout replicators can't provide a more varied menu. I would like to get my hands on that fellow Earl Grey and tell him a thing or two about tea leaves. We've just dropped out of warp. Is there something wrong? 
WORF: We can go no further. 
GARAK: What do you mean? 
WORF: My readings indicate the source of that coded signal is deep in Dominion space. I have strict orders to avoid unnecessary risk. We must turn back. 
GARAK: Well I certainly don't want to take an unnecessary risk, but our sensors show no sign of Jem'Hadar warships in this area. 
WORF: True. But the likelihood of contact will increase from this point on, and my orders were very clear. 
GARAK: But we've come all this way. To turn around without an answer it seems so un-Klingon. 
WORF: I am also a Starfleet officer. 
GARAK: Why don't we go through this nebula? We can avoid detection and get light years closer to the source of the transmission. 
WORF: Our shields would be useless in that nebula. 
GARAK: But so would Jem'Hadar sensors. The answer is out there, Commander. We just have to have the courage to find it. And remember, it's not just Tain we're looking for. The Maryland, the Proxima, the Sarajevo. Starfleet ships that have been lost in the Gamma Quadrant for years, and their crews, brave soldiers, warriors of the Federation unaccounted for. We owe it to them to do everything in our power to find them and bring them home. It's the honourable thing to do. 
WORF: You use that word, but you have no idea what it means. 
GARAK: Maybe not, but you do. 
WORF: Setting course for the nebula. 
(Into the big purple thing.) 
GARAK: There's a pocket of toh-maire gas ahead. 
WORF: Bringing her to zero three one mark three five five. 
GARAK: Steady as she. Now what could that be? 
WORF: Whatever they are, they are coming straight at us. 
(Oops, it's a Jem'Hadar fleet.) 
GARAK: Maybe this wasn't such a good idea after all. 
(Evasive manoeuvres during the break.) 
GARAK: You still haven't lost them. 
WORF: I know that. 
GARAK: There are four more Jem'Hadar ships in close pursuit, and at least two ahead of us on an intercept course. 
WORF: We must warn the station. There is only one reason for the Dominion to hide such a large fleet this close to the wormhole. 
GARAK: You think they're planning to attack the Alpha Quadrant? 
WORF: I'm certain of it. 
GARAK: Your message is transmitting, but it's hard to tell if it's getting through all this interference. 
WORF: We've got to get clear of the nebula. 
GARAK: What happened? We've just come to a dead stop. 
WORF: They have us in a tractor beam. 
GARAK: Re-polarise the hull. Try to shake us loose. 
(Four Jem'Hadar beam in) 
GARAK: Ah, are we glad to see you. Could one of you point us in the direction of the wormhole? 
(So Garak gets smacked in the face with a rifle butt.) 
[Turbolift]
KIRA: I'm telling you, he knows exactly who I am. Kirayoshi already recognises me. 
DAX: Nerys, the O'Brien's baby is less than a month old. He doesn't recognise his own fingers. 
KIRA: He spent seven months inside my belly, listening to my heartbeat, hearing to my voice. There's a connection there. 
[Ops]
KIRA: Every time I walk into the room, he smiles. 
DAX: It's probably gas. 
KIRA: Thanks. You always know just the right thing to say. 
O'BRIEN: So how's my baby boy? 
KIRA: He recognised me. 
O'BRIEN: Did he? 
DAX: Hold on. I'm receiving a priority one distress signal from the Gamma Quadrant. Dax to Sisko. You'd better come out here. 
SISKO: What is it? 
DAX: I've got a message from Worf, but it's badly garbled. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe I can clean it up. It says Jem'Hadar, and then some coordinates I can't make out. Build up and then 
SISKO: Go on, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: It ends with imminent. 
SISKO: Imminent? 
KIRA: We've just lost contact with two of our listening posts in the Gamma Quadrant. 
DAX: The Dominion. They're coming. 
SISKO: Notify Starfleet Command. Put the station on Yellow Alert. Make sure everyone knows this is not a drill. Major, I want you to take the Defiant into the Gamma Quadrant. Locate Mister Worf. Find out what the hell's going on there. 
KIRA: And if an invasion fleet is on the way? 
SISKO: Then get back here as soon as possible and God help us all. 
[Internment centre]
(A sealed area on an asteroid.) 
GARAK: Ah, good. You look like the man in charge. I was just trying to explain to your colleagues here that this is all an unfortunate misunderstanding. 
IKAT'IKA: Cardassians are all alike. You talk too much. 
WORF: Let him go. 
IKAT'IKA: I give the orders here. Release me or die. 
GARAK: Worf. Do as he says. 
IKAT'IKA: This is Internment camp three seven one. You are here because you are enemies of the Dominion. There is no release, no escape, except death. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Another listening post has gone dead, and the one closest to the wormhole is detecting an incoming ship. 
O'BRIEN: I'm picking up an increase in neutrino levels. Something's coming through. 
DAX: Shields fully charged. 
O'BRIEN: Weapons ready. 
DAX: The wormhole's opening. 
SISKO: On screen. 
(WHOOSH) 
O'BRIEN: It's the Defiant. 
DAX: We're being hailed. 
SISKO: Put it through. Major, what have you find? 
KIRA: Trouble. 
[Promenade]
(Dukat is waiting for Ziyal to leave the shrine) 
ZIYAL: Father, have you been waiting long? 
DUKAT: Not long. 
ZIYAL: You should have come into the Shrine. 
DUKAT: No, I don't think so. 
ZIYAL: So, where would you like to have dinner? 
DUKAT: Forget about dinner. I want you to go to back your quarters and pack your things. There's a ship leaving for Cardassia in the morning. I want you on it. 
ZIYAL: You're sending me to Cardassia? 
DUKAT: I've just learned there's a Dominion fleet headed for the wormhole. This place is not safe any longer. 
ZIYAL: Father, I'm not sure that I want to go. 
DUKAT: Ziyal, there's nothing to discuss. I'm not going to let any harm come to you. Now, I think you'd better get ready to leave. 
[Internment centre]
GUARD: They have been scanned. They have no weapons and their identities have been confirmed. 
IKAT'IKA: Very well. You will be sheltered in barracks six. You are free to move about the compound. But remember, beyond the atmospheric dome there is nothing but airless vacuum and barren rock. Leave the dome, even for an instant, and you die. 
GARAK: We'll keep that in mind. 
IKAT'IKA: I've been waiting for another Klingon. 
(In the central of the association area is a fight ring. Jem'Hadar versus a Klingon.) 
WORF: General Martok. 
(Martok gets thrown. He gets up and hits a light then carries on being pummelled.) 
IKAT'IKA: Enough. It's over. But for you, it's just beginning. 
(The Jem'Hadar leave the prisoners.) 
MARTOK: Do I know you? 
(Martok is missing his left eye.) 
WORF: I am Worf, son of Mogh. 
MARTOK: Yes, I've heard of you. 
GARAK: How long have you been here? 
MARTOK: Two years. 
GARAK: Aren't you Klingons supposed to kill yourselves when you're taken prisoner? 
WORF: Not when there are still enemies to fight. 
MARTOK: Or hope of escape. If you are Worf then you must be Garak. He said you would come. 
[Barracks]
(Steel walls, metal bunk beds, two Romulans, one Breen and someone on a bunk) 
MARTOK: There. 
GARAK: Tain. 
WORF: What is wrong with him? 
MARTOK: It's his heart. 
GARAK: Really. There are many people who'd say he doesn't have one. 
MARTOK: He was convinced that you would come. 
GARAK: He knew I had no choice. Tain. Tain, I'm here. 
TAIN: My message. It got through? 
GARAK: It did. 
TAIN: Where are the others? 
GARAK: There are no others. Just Commander Worf and me. 
TAIN: You allowed yourselves to be taken prisoner? I taught you better than that. Living on that station has dulled your wits. 
GARAK: That's it? After I've come all this way, after all I've been through, that's all you have to say to me? 
TAIN: What do you want me to say? 
GARAK: I want you to say thank you, Elim. Your loyalty is most gratifying. I knew I could count on you. 
TAIN: But I couldn't count on you, could I? All you've done is to doom us both. 
[Wardroom]
DUKAT: Sorry I'm late. 
KIRA: What's he doing here? 
DUKAT: Captain Sisko invited me. 
SISKO: A Dominion invasion of the Alpha Quadrant will affect Cardassia every bit as much as it's going to affect us. Besides, we need all the help we can get. The Dominion picked a perfect time to invade. The Cardassian fleet is in shambles, the Romulans are not much better off, and between the Klingon War and 
the recent Borg attack
, Starfleet's spread pretty thin.; 
KIRA: Then we're going to have our hands full. There're at least fifty Dominion ships headed our way. For all we know, that could be just the first wave. 
DAX: How soon can we expect reinforcements to get here? 
SISKO: At maximum warp, two days. 
KIRA: Not soon enough. 
O'BRIEN: What help can we expect from Cardassia? 
DUKAT: My ship and my crew are at your disposal. 
BASHIR: One ship. Things are looking brighter. 
SISKO: Right now, there's no way we can beat the Dominion. Our only hope is to prevent their fleet from entering the Alpha Quadrant. 
KIRA: You're going to destroy the wormhole? 
SISKO: It's always been a final option. I'd hoped to never use it. 
KIRA: But the Celestial Temple, the Prophets 
SISKO Professor Kahn of the Trill Science Ministry has come up with a way to seal the wormhole without damaging it or harming the Prophets. 
KIRA: But Bajor will be cut off from the Celestial Temple. 
SISKO: History has shown whenever the Prophets want to communicate with Bajor, they find a way. 
KIRA: But 
SISKO: It's either that or Bajor becomes the first Dominion target. 
O'BRIEN: We'll have to remodulate the deflector grid frequencies and rig a phase-conjugate graviton beam. 
SISKO: You and Dax start working immediately. 
DAX: What about Worf? 
ODO: If we close the wormhole, he and Garak will be trapped in the Gamma Quadrant. 
DUKAT: Casualties of war. 
SISKO: They have thirty six hours to find their way home. Let's hope they can make it. Dismissed. 
[Barracks]
MARTOK: Before this asteroid was converted into a prison, the Dominion used to mine ultritium here. There was no dome. Each of these barracks had its own life support system embedded in the walls. 
GARAK: And Tain was able to modify that life support system and create a subspace transmitter? 
MARTOK: Yes. There's a crawl space just behind those panels. He spent hours in there working every day for months on end. Cardassians. They're clever people. Especially that one. But in just a few days at best, he'll be dead. 
WORF: Then it is up to us to be clever. 
ROMULAN: (woman) They're releasing him from isolation. 
MARTOK: Good. 
WORF: Who? 
MARTOK: A friend. 
(Martok and the Romulans leave, Worf and Garak follow) 
[Internment centre]
GUARD: Move! 
(A Federation officer in old style Starfleet blue uniform is thrown out into the light. Doctor Julian Bashir.) 
[Barracks]
(Bashir uses a sharp piece of metal to draw his blood. It stays red.) 
BASHIR: B negative, in case you were wondering. 
MARTOK: Well, it appears we are all who we seem to be. 
WORF: If the blood screenings can be trusted. 
BASHIR: It's all we've got. 
GARAK: What about the others? Have they been tested? 
BASHIR: Everyone except that Breen. No blood. 
GARAK: When were you brought here? 
BASHIR: Over a month ago. I was attending a burn treatment conference on Meezan Four. I went to bed one night and woke up here. 
MARTOK: The same thing happened to me, except I was hunting sabre bear out on Kang's Summit. Little did I know I was being stalked as well. And now I'm told the changeling that replaced me has caused the death of countless Klingons. It is a grave dishonour. 
WORF: You are not to blame. 
BASHIR: I can only imagine what my replacement is up to on the station. 
WORF: We must escape and warn Captain Sisko before that changeling carries out his mission. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: Creating a precisely modulated graviton field to seal the wormhole isn't going to be as easy as Lenara thought. 
DAX: She was always a lot stronger on theory than execution. But we'll get it. 
BASHIR 2: I'm sure you will. 
O'BRIEN: Julian. What are you doing up this early? 
(The changeling Doctor has brought a tray.) 
BASHIR 2: You've been working for sixteen hours straight. I thought you could do with some sandwiches. 
DAX: That's very thoughtful. 
O'BRIEN: You're a gentleman and a scholar. 
BASHIR 2: Truer words were never spoken. Oh, if you need anything, anything at all, let me know. 
[Airlock]
DUKAT: Ah, it's about time. You almost missed your transport. Where's your baggage? Never mind. I'll have it sent to you. 
ZIYAL: That won't be necessary, Father. I'm not leaving. 
DUKAT: Ziyal, I know we haven't spent much time together, but I think you know me well enough to realise that when I give an order, I expect to be obeyed. 
ZIYAL: I'm not one of your soldiers. 
DUKAT: No, you're my daughter. 
ZIYAL: I'm Tora Naprem's daughter too. I'm half Bajoran. I don't belong on Cardassia. You know I will never be accepted there. 
DUKAT: Ziyal, you have to trust me. Things are going to change on Cardassia. 
ZIYAL: What things? 
DUKAT: I don't have time to explain. You're leaving now. 
ZIYAL: I can't go. 
DUKAT: It's him, isn't it? That despicable tailor. You don't want to leave because you're waiting for him? 
ZIYAL: Garak promised me that he would come back. 
DUKAT: Listen to me, Ziyal. He's never coming back. He's probably dead already, and even if he isn't, the Federation is going to seal the wormhole. Garak will be trapped on the other side. 
ZIYAL: He made a promise and so did I. I said I would wait for him and I will. 
DUKAT: Is a promise to an enemy of your family more important than obeying your father? (silence) So be it. Stay here if that's what you want. Stay here and be damned. 
[Internment centre]
GARAK: I should never have come here. I should have let that monster die forgotten and alone. 
BASHIR: Frankly, I'm glad you came. Misery loves company. 
GARAK: All my life I've done nothing but try to please that man. I let him mold me, let him turn me into a mirror image of himself, and how did he repay me? With exile. But I forgave him. And here, in the end, I thought maybe, just maybe, he could forgive me. 
BASHIR: From what I've seen of him over the last month, he doesn't come across as the forgiving type. 
GARAK: I've been a fool. Let this be a lesson to you, Doctor, perhaps the most valuable one I can ever teach you. Sentiment is the greatest weakness of all. 
BASHIR: If that's true, it's a lesson I'd rather no learn. 
MARTOK: I thought you might want to know. If you wish to speak to Tain do it now, before it's too late. 
[Barracks]
TAIN: Elim? Elim, is that you? 
GARAK: It's me. 
TAIN: Everything's gone dark. I can't see you. Are you alone? 
GARAK: Yes. There's no one else but you and me. 
(Liar, Bashir is there.) 
TAIN: Surjak, Memad, Brun. They can't be trusted. They must be dealt with. 
GARAK: I've already taken care of it. 
TAIN: What about Gul Vorlem? Were you been able to contact him? 
GARAK: Years ago. 
TAIN: The Romulan ambassador? 
GARAK: he's gone. All your enemies are dead. 
TAIN: Good. A man shouldn't allow his enemies to outlive him. 
GARAK: Then you can die happy. Unless you still consider me your enemy. 
TAIN: Elim, promise me one thing. 
GARAK: I'm listening. 
TAIN: Don't die here. Escape. Live. 
GARAK: Let me guess. So I can make the Dominion pay for what they've done to you. 
TAIN: You wouldn't deny an old man his revenge, would you? 
GARAK: I'll do as you ask on one condition. That you don't ask me this favour as a mentor, or a superior officer, but as a father asking his son. 
TAIN: You're not my son. 
GARAK: Father. Father, you're dying. For once in your life, speak the truth. 
TAIN: I should have killed your mother before you were born. You have always been a weakness I can't afford. 
GARAK: So you've told me, many times. Listen, Enabran. All I ask is that for this moment, let me be your son. 
TAIN: Elim, remember that day in the country? You must have been almost five. 
GARAK: How can I forget it? It was the only day. 
TAIN: I can still see you on the back of that riding hound. You must have fallen off a dozen times but you never gave up. 
GARAK: I remember limping home. You held my hand. 
TAIN: I was very proud of you that day. 
(Tain dies.) 
BASHIR: Garak. 
(Garak covers Tain's face, and Worf and Martok enter.) 
GARAK: Gentlemen, I don't know about you, but my business here is done. 
WORF: Then I suggest we find a way out of here. 
Captain's log, supplemental. A full scale Dominion invasion appears imminent. Still, I remain confident in my crew's ability to face this crisis as they have so many others, with dedication and with courage. 
[Ops]
KIRA: Our last listening post in the Gamma Quadrant just went dead. 
DAX: That one was right on the other side of the wormhole. 
SISKO: Which means the Dominion fleet is minutes away. Chief? 
O'BRIEN: Nearly ready. 
DAX: Worf. 
BASHIR 2: Is a Klingon warrior. He'd understand. 
KIRA: Neutrino levels in the wormhole are rising. 
SISKO: If we're going to do this, it's got to be now. 
O'BRIEN: Ready. 
BASHIR 2: Here goes nothing. 
SISKO: Activate graviton emitters. 
KIRA: May the Prophets forgive us. 
(Three beams go from DS9 to the wormhole, and it opens. Then a panel in the pit explodes. The beams stutter.) 
DAX: We're losing it. 
(The beams go out and the wormhole closes.) 
SISKO: What happened? 
O'BRIEN: Someone sabotaged the emitter array. 
KIRA: Captain, the wormhole's opening. 
(WHOOSH - and out come the Jem'Hadar fleet.) 
SISKO: Battle stations. 
To Be Continued...

