Episode Number: 519
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Soldiers of the Empire
Soldiers of the Empire
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 28 Apr, 1997
[Infirmary]
(Martok has a shoulder wound.) 
BASHIR: Another three centimetres to the right and you would've severed the brachial artery. Autosuture, please. And if that had happened, you would have bled to death right there in the holosuite. 
MARTOK: The human fascination with what might have been is tiresome, doctor. The artery was not severed and I am not dead. 
BASHIR: Oh, well, forgive me for boring you. Let me get straight to the point. You're acting like a fool. 
MARTOK: Your observation is noted. But spending two years in a Dominion prison camp has dulled my reflexes. This only proves that I need further training. 
BASHIR: Turning off the holosuite safety protocols during a battle simulation is at best dubious. For a man with only one eye it's positively idiotic. Now, if you would consider ocular 
MARTOK: I do not want an artificial eye! 
BASHIR: Then you must accept the fact that you have a disability and stop acting like 
MARTOK: There are limits as to how far I will indulge you, Doctor. 
CREWWOMAN [OC]: General Martok, there is a priority message for you from the Klingon High Council. 
BASHIR: We're done here. 
MARTOK: Route the message to my quarters. 
CREWWOMAN [OC]: Acknowledged. 
MARTOK: Doctor, thank you. 
BASHIR: If you really want to thank me, don't walk in here dripping blood anymore. It takes days to get it out of the carpet. 
[Bridge]
(Worf is working under a console) 
WORF: Check it now. 
NOG: Still no increase in phaser relay efficiency, sir. The throughput reading is steady at one four eight point seven. 
WORF: Have you initialised the interface program? 
NOG: Yes, and then I charged the prefire chamber and recalibrated the emitter stage. This thing just doesn't work! Sir. 
WORF: Very well. We'll start over. Go to the Engine Room and download the operating system into the computer core, but this time do it one file at a time. 
(Nog mimes throttling Worf.) 
NOG: Aye, sir. 
(Martok enters and Nog cannot get past him.) 
NOG: Good evening, General. 
MARTOK: Cadet. 
WORF: General. I did not expect you until twenty two hundred hours. 
MARTOK: I must cancel our appointment. I've received new orders from the High Council, a mission of some importance. I must prepare. 
WORF: Of course. May glory and honour follow you on your journey. 
NOG: Excuse me, sirs? Could I just slip by? 
(Martok lets Nog leave.) 
WORF: How is the shoulder? 
MARTOK: Oh, Doctor Bashir made the necessary repairs. I told him it was a holosuite accident. He would not understand the need to draw blood in a warrior's training exercise. 
WORF: Few humans would. However, I do apologise again for the inconvenience. I did not intend to cause so much damage. 
MARTOK: I was the one who did not parry the blow in time. A simple, foolish mistake. One that I would not have made two years ago. 
WORF: Can you discuss the mission? 
MARTOK: Three days ago, the battle cruiser B'Moth began a patrol along the Cardassian border. They have not been heard from since. They are now reported as missing. 
WORF: It is possible she was destroyed by the Dominion. The Jem'Hadar attacked a Federation starship near the border less than a week ago. 
MARTOK: That is our assumption as well, but we must be sure. So I have been given command of a Bird of Prey, the Rotarran, to conduct a search for the B'Moth. This is the first time I will have led troops in the field since my confinement by the Dominion. 
WORF: It must be an exciting prospect. 
MARTOK: I tell you, Worf, without shame, there were days in that prison camp when the thought that I would never again set foot in a Klingon vessel made me weep like an old woman. 
WORF: I envy you the days ahead. It will be a glorious adventure. 
MARTOK: An adventure that we could share, my friend. I need someone I can trust at my side. Someone whose loyalty I can count on. Worf, son of Mogh, I ask you to join me on this mission as my friend and as my First Officer. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: I told the General that I'm inclined to grant his request for your services, Commander. I can certainly understand why he wants you along. You're a fine officer. But I'm not sure why you want to go on this mission. 
WORF: It is a great honour to be asked to serve under General Martok. And he saved my life in the Dominion prison camp. 
SISKO: Oh? You didn't put that in your mission report. 
WORF: It was a personal matter, not something that belongs in an official report. 
SISKO: Go on. 
WORF: You know that I was forced to fight the Jem'Hadar guards in the camp. Each day they would call me to the ring and each day I would fight. But, then there came a day when I wavered. 
SISKO: You mean you didn't want to go back into the ring. 
WORF: No. I mean I considered letting them kill me. It seemed like the only way out. Just before I went into the ring, Martok turned to wish me success and then he saw what I was planning. He saw it in my eyes. It was a moment of tova'dok. 
SISKO: Of what? 
WORF: There is no human word for it. It is a moment of clarity between two warriors on the field of battle. Much is said without the need for words. In that moment, he knew what was in my mind. Once I realised that he saw my intention to give up, I could no longer go through with it. I went back into the ring and fought once more. He had given me his warrior's heart. Perhaps it is something a human cannot understand. 
SISKO: As of this moment you are be relieved of all Starfleet obligations and placed on detached service to the Imperial Klingon Defence Forces. 
WORF: Thank you, sir. 
SISKO: Mister Worf. Q'apla! 
WORF: Q'apla! 
[Quark's]
KIRA: The revised duty roster. Read it and weep. 
O'BRIEN: Small arms recalibration? Does that mean all the small arms on the station? 
KIRA: Afraid so. And I need an experienced combat officer to do it. Worf has already set up the parameters. All you need to do is make sure it gets done. 
BASHIR: I'm the new Intelligence officer? 
KIRA: It has to be a Starfleet officer with a level four security clearance. That means either you or Dax, and I need Dax to take over as Fleet Liaison Officer. 
O'BRIEN: Beats retuning phaser rifles. 
BASHIR: Well, I certainly hope Worf's enjoying himself while we're stuck here taking over his duties. 
DAX: Julian, have you ever been on a Klingon ship? If you think the Defiant is cramped and uncomfortable, try spending a week on a bird of prey. Worf isn't exactly taking a luxury cruise. 
O'BRIEN: Serving on a Klingon ship is like being with a gang of ancient sea pirates. You advance in rank by killing the people above you, so everywhere you turn you're surrounded by potential assassins. 
KIRA: but that's crazy. How can a ship function like that? 
DAX: It's not quite that chaotic. The social and military hierarchy of a Klingon vessel's very strictly enforced. A subordinate can only challenge his direct superior and only under certain conditions. 
BASHIR: What sort of conditions? 
DAX: Dereliction of duty, dishonourable conduct, cowardice. 
O'BRIEN: Cowardice? A Klingon? 
DAX: It's been known to happen. The Klingons are as diverse a people as any. Some of them are strong, and some of them are weak. 
BASHIR: I'd say that those two definitely fall into the strong category. 
(A young, short-haired Klingon in a sleeveless tunic and an older companion wearing a necklace have entered. Odo isn't far behind.) 
KIRA: Trouble? 
ODO: Not yet. 
KIRA: I can see why they caught your attention. 
O'BRIEN: Are they off Martok's new ship? 
ODO: Just docked. 
O'BRIEN: They seem quiet enough. 
ODO: For the moment, maybe. But do you see the one on the left wearing the necklace? 
BASHIR: Yes. 
ODO: Those are neck bones. Cardassian neck bones. 
[Airlock]
DAX: Decided not to wear the sash after all? 
WORF: Officially, there is no House of Mogh in the Empire, so I saw little point in wearing its emblem on a Klingon ship. 
DAX: How do you think the crew's going to feel about serving under a man without a House? 
WORF: How they feel is unimportant. All I require from them is obedience. 
DAX Spoken like an uncaring, hard-nosed, autocrat. The quintessential First Officer. 
WORF: I do not wish to have a lengthy goodbye. 
DAX: I wasn't planning on having one. 
WORF: Good. 
(Worf enters the airlock, Jadzia follows.) 
WORF: Jadzia. 
DAX: Yes. 
WORF: I think it would be better to part company here on the station. 
DAX: Oh, I'm coming with you. 
WORF: What? 
DAX: The Rotarran is short-handed and I still have four month's leave coming. I've already cleared it with Martok and Benjamin. I'm your new Science Officer. 
WORF: Why did you not tell me? 
DAX: It's more fun this way. And after getting a good look at a couple members of the Rotarran's crew, I don't think we're going to be having a lot of fun on this mission. 
[Klingon Bridge]
(The two Klingons are staring at Dax. She gets up and walks towards them.) 
DAX: Boo! 
(A red-headed female Klingon laughs.) 
TAVANA: Ros-te-ka cha'Domak ootha Trill? 
TAVANA: I am Tavana, Engineering Officer. 
DAX: I'm Jadzia Dax, Science Officer. 
TAVANA: Dax? Are you related to the great Curzon Dax? 
DAX: Curzon was the last host for my symbiont. I carry his memories. 
TAVANA: My mother met the great Curzon on the Homeworld once. She said he was very taken with her. 
DAX: Curzon was very taken with many people. 
TAVANA: So was my mother. 
(Worf enters.) 
WORF: I am Worf, son of Mogh. I now take my place as First Officer. I serve the Captain, but I stand for the crew. Who brings the record of battle for this ship? 
(The young Klingon gets nudged by Tavana.) 
KORNAN: I, Kornan son of Shovak, weapons officer of the ship Rotarran, present the glorious record of our honour and hope that you may find us worthy of your leadership. 
(He hands over a PADD.) 
LESKIT: If you're looking for our victories, you won't find any. Not for the last seven months. 
WORF: I do not need help recognising a list of failures. It is clear to me that none of you are worthy of my blood or my life. But I will stand for you and together we will restore honour to this ship and bring glory to the Empire. 
(Martok enters.) 
WORF: I have accepted the crew's battle records, and on their behalf I pledge you our lives and ask you that you lead us as commander of this ship. 
MARTOK: I accept your lives into my hands. De-lak DOH! 
WORF: Clear all moorings. Release docking clamps. 
LESKIT: Docking clamps released. 
WORF: Bow thrusters ahead one half. 
LESKIT: We have cleared the docking ring. 
MARTOK: Ahead one quarter impulse. 
WORF: Helmsman, plot a direct course to the last known position of the B'Moth, maximum warp. 
MARTOK: No. That would take us into the Tong Beak Nebula. I want to go around the nebula. 
WORF: General, that will add a full day to our journey. 
MARTOK: I'm aware of that. There are reports of the Dominion operating ships in the Nebula. I would like to avoid a fight with the Jem'Hadar. 
LESKIT: You wish to avoid a fight? 
MARTOK: Your tone does not sit well with me, helmsman. Our mission is to find the B'Moth, not satisfy your warrior's pride. 
LESKIT: My apologies, sir. I meant no disrespect. 
WORF: Then carry out your orders and lay in the course. Maximum warp. 
LESKIT: Yes, Commander. Maximum warp. Around the Nebula. Helm ready. 
MARTOK: Mahk-cha. 
(Worf sets up a rhythm by hitting a console, then begins to sing.) 
WORF: Qoy qeylIs puqloD. (Dax joins in) Qoy puqbe'pu'. yoHbogh matlhbogh je SuvwI' 
(Dax hits Leskit to join in.) 
WORF + DAX + LESKIT: Say'moHchu' may' 'Iw. 
(The rest join but it's not enthusiastic.) 
ALL: maSuv manong 'ej maHoHchu'. nI'be' yInmaj 'ach wovqu'. batlh maHeghbej 'ej yo' qIjDaq vavpu'ma' DImuv. pa' reH maSuvtaHqu'. mamevQo'. maSuvtaH. ma'ov. 
[Klingon Mess hall]
(Dax enters, and pulls an officer from his seat near the head of the table.) 
DAX: Maybe you didn't read the crew roster, but my name is Dax, and I'm the new science officer on this garbage scow. You were in my seat. I'm glad we understand each other. Now get down to the other end where you belong. 
TAVANA: Stewed bok-rat liver? 
DAX: It's not very fresh. With a little bloodwine, it might be acceptable. 
LESKIT: There's been no bloodwine on this ship for six months. 
DAX: Really? Then I'm glad I brought three barrels aboard before we left Deep Space Nine. 
KORNAN: Three barrels? 
[Klingon Ready room]
(Dirty, uncared-for room like the rest of the ship and crew) 
MARTOK: Dishonourable conduct. Dereliction of duty. Inattention to orders. Unmotivated. Insufficiently aggressive. These personnel reports read like prison records. 
WORF: We should remember that the Rotarran has been beaten again and again by the Jem'Hadar. It is not surprising that crew morale has suffered. 
MARTOK: It's more than a case of low morale, Worf. This crew has been beaten so many times they expect defeat. And that is dangerous. 
WORF: They need a victory. One decisive battle against the Jem'Hadar would do much to lift their spirits. 
MARTOK: And mine. No one hungers for a victory over the Jem'Hadar more than I do. No one. But we must be cautious. We cannot risk taking this crew into combat before they're ready. 
WORF: They will be ready. I will see to that. 
MARTOK: I know you will, my friend. Together we will make the Rotarran an honourable ship again. A ship worthy of the Empire. You may return to your station. 
[Klingon Mess hall]
(The bloodwine is flowing.) 
TAVANA: The Cardassians were trapped between us and the asteroid field. It was perfect. Their power was failing, they had no other ships nearby and our weapons were fully charged. 
KORNAN: And we were still denied a victory. 
TAVANA: Three Jem'Hadar ships appeared from out of the asteroid field. 
DAX: Three to one are long odds. I'd say you did well just getting away with your ship in one piece. 
LESKIT: Getting away is something we've become very good at. The Rotarran can run away from battle faster than any ship in the quadrant. 
TAVANA: You never could handle your bloodwine, Leskit. You sound like a snivelling Ferengi crying about lost profit. 
LESKIT: That's supposed to wound my pride, but Tavana has forgotten that no one serving on the Rotarran has any pride left. 
DAX: Does that include me? 
LESKIT: I do not wish to insult someone who brought me wine, but one does wonder why the successor to the great Curzon Dax would consent to serve on a ship like this. 
ORTAKIN: It's no mystery. She's the parMach'kai of our new First Officer. I heard it on the space station before we left. 
DAX: Worf is only part of the reason I'm here. I think it is an honour to serve under General Martok. 
LESKIT: You mean the one-eyed giant? 
DAX: I wouldn't let him hear you say that. 
LESKIT: He won't. Unless Worf is not the only one you're sharing a bed this trip. 
DAX: On this trip, my bed is as empty as yours, Leskit. Except mine is empty by choice. 
(Everyone laughs.) 
TAVANA: Now that is a sound I haven't heard on this ship for a long time. 
KORNAN: It won't last. This ship is made for tears, not laughter. 
DAX: You're really not much fun at parties are you, Kornan? 
KORNAN: Make your jokes. Hold off fate for another day if you can, but this ship and all the souls within its hull are cursed. Death and dishonour walk these corridors like members of the crew. 
TAVANA: You talk too much, Kornan. 
KORNAN: Tell me you don't believe it too. 
(The lights dim.) 
LESKIT: We've cloaked. 
WORF [OC]: Alert status one. A Jem'Hadar patrol ship is directly ahead. Prepare for combat operations. 
KORNAN: Now you will see. Either death or dishonour will visit us this day and there will be nothing that you or I or any of us can do about it. 
[Klingon Bridge]
MARTOK: What are they doing here, this far from the Cardassian border? 
DAX: They're conducting active polaron scans of this sector. It's likely they're on some kind of reconnaissance mission. 
MARTOK: Can their scans penetrate our cloak? 
DAX: I'd say there's less than a three percent chance of detection. 
MARTOK: What's our weapons status? 
KORNAN: Torpedo bays are loaded, warheads are armed. Disruptors are locked on target. 
LESKIT: They've increased speed. They're beginning to pull away. Shall I match velocity? 
MARTOK: No. Take us back to our original course. 
LESKIT: Forgive this unworthy officer's poor hearing, but what was your order? 
MARTOK: Take us back to our original course. Our priority is to find the B'Moth. 
WORF: Sir, we have them in our sights. They cannot escape 
MARTOK: No, Worf. 
WORF: But letting the ship go 
MARTOK: Do not question me! Is the course laid in? 
LESKIT: Yes, Captain. I await your next command. 
MARTOK: Engage. Stand down from Alert Status. You have the bridge. 
(Martok leaves.) 
DAX: Commander. 
(Worf and Dax whisper at her station.) 
DAX: That was a mistake. We shouldn't have let them go. 
WORF: Our orders are to find the B'Moth, not seek combat. It was a prudent decision. 
DAX: To hell with prudence. This isn't a Federation starship, this is a Klingon bird of prey. We could have had an easy victory, and in case you haven't noticed, this crew could use a victory. 
WORF: Enough. You may be my parMach'kai, but that does not give you the right 
DAX: I am an officer on this ship and I am trying to warn my superior that a dangerous situation is developing, and that he'd better do something about it. 
WORF: What do you mean, dangerous? 
DAX: Take a good look around you, Commander. Maybe it's just me, but I think we're in trouble. 
[Klingon Ready room]
MARTOK: I brought you here to support me, not to undermine my authority! 
WORF: I am simply trying to point out that we had an opportunity to destroy an enemy ship with little risk to ourselves. 
MARTOK: Little risk. What if they had gotten off a distress call before we destroyed them? They could have given away our position, called in reinforcements. We would have spent the next three days avoiding Jem'Hadar ships instead of carrying out our mission! No, my friend, no. This was not the right time for battle. You question my judgment in this matter? 
WORF: No. 
MARTOK: Good. Without your support I cannot command this ship. Tell me that I have not made an mistake in making you my First Officer. 
WORF: You have my full support, General. 
MARTOK: I knew you would not fail me, Worf. And you can rest assured I will not fail you. 
[Klingon Mess hall]
(Dax enters and gets a drink.) 
LESKIT: Two years I spent on the Cardassian border. Two years fighting Guls and Legates and Glinns. They were cunning enemies. Always had us chasing holo-projections and sensor ghosts. Everything was a game with them. Always had a plan within a plan within a plan leading into a trap. It was an honour to kill them. 
ORTAKIN: The Cardassians. 
LESKIT: Ah, but you can respect a Cardassian because he fights for his people and he follows a code just like we do. But not the soldiers of the Dominion. Not the Jem'Hadar. No, they don't fight for anything. They fight because they're designed that way, because they're programmed to fight. 
ORTAKIN: They have no honour. 
LESKIT: You're right. That's why they're better than us. 
DAX: That's enough. You're on duty in an hour and you should 
LESKIT: The Trill doesn't want you to know the truth, my young friend, but you deserve to know the Jem'Hadar are smarter, they're faster, and they're stronger than we are! 
ORTAKIN: How can you say these things? 
DAX: He's drunk, ignore him. 
LESKIT: No! Listen! Listen and maybe learn something. The Jem'Hadar are the future! 
DAX: Shut up, Leskit! 
LESKIT: You know why? Because they can break any of us. Just like they broke Martok. 
DAX: That's enough! 
LESKIT: She doesn't want you to hear the truth. Martok fears them! That's why we didn't attack them! Martok fears them! 
(Kornan attacks Leskit, Ortakin tries to break it up so Kornon tries to throttle him. Dax stuns Kornan with her phaser.) 
[Klingon Corridor]
WORF: Dax. Dax! What happened? Are you all right? 
DAX: I had to take Ortakin to surgery. Kornan almost killed him. 
WORF: Why? 
DAX: Because Leskit was drunk. 
WORF: I do not understand. 
DAX: No, you don't understand because you're too busy worrying about Martok while the crew is falling apart! Kornan needed to attack someone and he lost control. But this is only the beginning. This crew has lost half a dozen separate actions to the Jem'Hadar. The casualty list is as long as my arm. And now they're serving under a man who seems to have left behind more than just an eye in that prison camp. 
WORF: Do not speak of the Captain in that manner, not while I am First Officer. 
DAX: Look, I like Martok, but this crew needs a leader. Someone who'll remind them of their duty as soldiers of the Empire. And they need that leader right now, or I promise you they will explode. 
WORF: It will not come to that. I know Martok. He is a great man. He will not fail us, but we must give him time. 
DAX: Time may be the one thing we don't have, Worf. What happened in that mess hall could happen all over this ship. And if you think the blood looks bad on my uniform, wait until the decks are dripping with it. 
[Klingon Bridge]
DAX: Commander, I'm picking up a Klingon distress call. It's very faint but I might be able to. It's the B'Moth. They were attacked by the Jem'Hadar and lost main power. Heavy casualties, at least thirty survivors. In need of assistance. Emergency power's failing. The message repeats. 
WORF: Location? 
DAX: The signal is coming from zero five five mark three four two. Distance at least seven light years. 
WORF: Helm, alter course to zero five five mark three four two. 
LESKIT: Understood. 
WORF: I will inform the General. Engineer, you have the bridge. 
(Worf leaves.) 
TAVANA: I want to thank you for what you did in the mess hall. 
DAX: Is Ortakin your parMach'kai? 
TAVANA: Things are coming to a head on this ship. When the fighting breaks out, stay with me. I'll protect you. 
DAX: I was still hoping there wasn't going to be any fighting. 
(Kornan enters.) 
TAVANA: Station! Station! 
[Klingon Ready room]
MARTOK: Something is wrong here, Worf. I can feel it. If the B'Moth was attacked by the Jem'Hadar, why would there be survivors? 
WORF: Since we do not know any details of the battles it is difficult to speculate. 
MARTOK: We both know the Jem'Hadar do not leave a task half-finished. If they left the ship intact and part of the crew alive, they did it for a reason. 
WORF: There could be many explanations. The B'Moth could have inflicted heavy damage on the Jem'Hadar vessels, forcing them to withdraw. The Jem'Hadar ships could have been recalled during 
MARTOK: How is it I have only one eye, but I can see more clearly than anyone around me? They deliberately left survivors on that ship. Why? Because they want someone to try to rescue them. Oh, do not take this personally, my friend. I spent two years with the Jem'Hadar. I do not expect you to have the same insight into them that I do. They're soulless creatures, Worf, fighting for no goal, no purpose except to serve the Founders. They take no pleasure in what they do. Nothing is glorified, nothing affirmed. To the Jem'Hadar, we are nothing more than targets to be destroyed. I must not allow them to destroy us, Worf. I must not 
WORF: With all due respect, General, we do not know the tactical situation of the B'Moth yet. We should guard against making any premature judgements. 
MARTOK: Of course. Dismissed. 
WORF [OC]: Rotarran combat log. The fifty third day in the year of Kahless nine ninety nine. We have reached the Cardassian border and begun our search for the B'Moth. 
[Klingon Bridge]
MARTOK: Helm, keep us at least five million kellicams from the border. 
LESKIT: Understood. 
DAX: I think I've got something. It's hard to make out through all the interference, but the thermal signature looks like a ship. It's bearing direct to starboard at an elevation of twenty five degrees. It's coming into visual range. 
WORF: On screen. 
(The static clears to show a heavily damaged ship.) 
TAVANA: The B'Moth. 
DAX: Confirmed. 
WORF: Helm, lay in a course to bring us alongside. 
TAVANA: Bridge to Medical Ward, prepare to receive casualties. 
WORF: Assemble an armed boarding party in transporter room one. Make a complete search of all the habitable areas 
MARTOK: Hold! Commander Dax, what side of the border are they on? 
DAX: They're five hundred thousand kellicams inside Cardassian territory, sir. They must have drifted across a couple of days ago. 
MARTOK: There are probably five Jem'Hadar warships out there right now just waiting for us to cross the border. 
WORF: General, if they are nearby, they do not care what side of the border we are on. They will simply attack. 
MARTOK: I have explicit orders from the High Council not to enter Cardassian territory. 
WORF: I am certain the Council will not object under these circumstances. There are survivors still aboard the B'Moth. 
MARTOK: We do not know that. All that we know is there is an automated distress call. They could all be dead by now. 
WORF: And if they are not? 
MARTOK: Then there is nothing we can do for them. 
TAVANA: General, you don't intend to just leave them there? 
MARTOK: I will not throw away the lives of this crew in a futile rescue attempt. 
WORF: They are Klingon warriors, we just cannot 
MARTOK: I have made my decision! We will not cross the border! From this moment, anyone who questions that, anyone, will be charged with treasonable disobedience. Worf, you have the Bridge. 
(Martok leaves. Leskit laughs.) 
WORF: Stations! Stations! 
DAX: We can't just leave those men out there to die. 
WORF: No. 
DAX: So what are you going to do? 
WORF: The only thing I can do. Challenge Martok for command of this ship. 
DAX: I agree. But you realise he may not step aside willingly. 
WORF: I know. But if the General will not step aside I will have to kill him. 
(Later, Kornan and Leskit are talking quietly. Tavana takes out her disruptor pistol and puts it on her console, ready. Kornan and Leskit approach Worf.) 
KORNAN: Martok must die. 
WORF: That is not your decision. 
LESKIT: He is a coward. While he commands, he dishonours us all. 
WORF: I shed no tears for your dishonour, Leskit. 
LESKIT: Today would be a bad day to die, son of Mogh. Take your Trill and go. 
(Dax is tapping at her console. Worf looks at her and she nods.) 
WORF: Unlikely. 
LESKIT: I was hoping you would say something like that. 
(Ortakin enters with a disruptor rifle and two security.) 
WORF: Alert status one. All hands to battle stations. We are going to rescue the B'Moth survivors. 
(Martok enters.) 
MARTOK: Who gave the order to? What's going on here? 
WORF: As First Officer, I say that you are unfit to serve as Captain. 
MARTOK: You what? 
WORF: You are a coward and I challenge you for command of this ship. 
MARTOK: I never would have expected this from you, Worf. 
(They draw knives and start the fight. Worf gets first blood. The crowd urges him on. Worf is close to killing Martok, but Martok pushes him away. Finally, Martok stabs Worf in the abdomen.) 
CREW: Martok! Martok! Martok! Martok! Martok! 
TAVANA: Tactical alert! Tactical alert! There is a Jem'Hadar warship bearing one eight zero mark two one five. They will be within weapons range in nine minutes. 
MARTOK: The Jem'Hadar will soon learn to regret this day. Who is with me? 
DAX: Sometimes I think I know why I love you. Let's go to the Medical Ward. 
KORNAN: Shields and weapons ready. 
WORF: Wait. 
LESKIT: Intercept course laid in. 
(Tavana starts singing the Warrior's Anthem, and the rest join in with feeling this time.) 
TAVANA + ALL: Qoy qeylIs puqloD. Qoy puqbe'pu'. yoHbogh matlhbogh je SuvwI' Say'moHchu' may' 'Iw. maSuv manong 'ej maHoHchu'. 
MARTOK: Mahk-Cha!
ALL: nI'be' yInmaj 'ach wovqu'. batlh maHeghbej 'ej yo' qIjDaq vavpu'ma' DImuv. pa' reH maSuvtaHqu'. mamevQo'. maSuvtaH. ma'ov. 
DAX: Now, we go below. 
ALL: Qoy qeylIs puqloD. Qoy puqbe'pu'. yoHbogh matlhbogh je SuvwI' Say'moHchu' may' 'Iw. maSuv manong 'ej maHoHchu'. nI'be' yInmaj 'ach wovqu'. batlh maHeghbej 'ej yo' qIjDaq vavpu'ma' DImuv. pa' reH maSuvtaHqu'. mamevQo'. maSuvtaH. ma'ov. 
[Ops]
(Bashir arrives on the turbolift, reading a PADD.) 
O'BRIEN: How's the Intelligence business? 
BASHIR: Oh, I can't talk about it. All I can do is read these fascinating reports and analyses, and analyses of analyses, and then keep it all to myself. Because no one else has a need to know. So I have to walk around this station feeling like I, er. You don't really care, do you? 
O'BRIEN: No. A vessel's decloaking fifteen kilometres off the station. It's the Rotarran. 
KIRA: Martok's ship. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. And there's an incoming transmission. 
KIRA: On screen. 
MARTOK: Major, we've rescued thirty five survivors of a disabled Klingon battle cruiser. Request permission to beam them directly to your Infirmary. 
KIRA: Permission granted, General. You're also cleared to dock at bay four. 
MARTOK: We'll need an engineering team to repair our battle damage. And one other thing. Arrange to have fifteen barrels of bloodwine waiting for us in the airlock so we can celebrate the first victory of the Rotarran over the Jem'Hadar! 
[Quark's cafe]
MARTOK: Worf. 
WORF: General. 
MARTOK: The High Council has issued a commendation for the entire crew of the Rotarran. It would seem that you were right. They view the destruction of a Jem'Hadar ship and the rescue of thirty five warriors as ample justification for crossing the Cardassian border. Your actions on the Rotarran, at the time I thought they were disloyal, but I have come to realise that your intention was to remind me of my duty as a soldier of the Empire and as a warrior. For that I am grateful. 
WORF: You did the same for me once. 
MARTOK: Worf. On the bridge during the fight, when you dropped your guard. How did you know I would not kill you? 
WORF: I did not know. 
MARTOK: I see you're still wearing the crest of the House of Mogh. 
WORF: Yes. Jadzia calls it a sentimental gesture. 
MARTOK: Ah. Perhaps you would consider replacing sentiment with the symbol of a new beginning. 
(He takes his crest from his sleeve.) 
MARTOK: The House of Martok would be honoured to welcome the Son of Mogh into our family as a warrior and a brother. 
(Worf changes the badge on his sash.) 
WORF + MARTOK: Q'apla! 

