Episode Number: 422
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Circle
The Circle
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 4 Oct, 1993
Last time on Deep Space Nine. 
SISKO: This is the emblem of the Alliance for Global Unity. They call themselves the Circle. 
O'BRIEN: What gives them the right to mess up our station? 
ODO: They're an extremist faction who believe in Bajor for the Bajorans. 
SISKO: I can't loan you a Starfleet runabout without knowing where you plan on taking it. 
KIRA: To Cardassia Four to rescue a Bajoran prisoner of war. 
(The prisoners are rescued.) 
KIRA: Come on. We have a ship waiting. 
JARO: What you did today, Major, was declare war on Cardassia. Thankfully, they declined the invitation. 
SISKO: (to Dax) What if I told you that I knew someone who could bring stability to Bajor. Someone who could unite the factions and give us a chance to do our job. 
SISKO: But Bajor doesn't need a man. It needs a symbol, and that's what you are. 
JARO: The Navarch needed to return here to assume his new post. He's been made the Bajoran liaison officer to Deep Space Nine. 
SISKO: I already have a liaison officer. 
JARO: Not anymore you don't. Major Kira is no longer assigned to this post. She's been recalled to Bajor. 
And now, the continuation.
[Commander's office]
JARO: Frankly, Commander, I'm surprised at your reaction. 
SISKO: Oh, I don't think much surprises you, Minister. 
JARO: But I expected you to be celebrating. I was under the impression that Major Kira has been nothing but trouble to you since 
SISKO: Who gave you that impression? 
JARO: Common knowledge. 
SISKO: Major Kira has my complete respect. She's been invaluable in establishing this command post. And now she's been dismissed without anyone consulting me and I don't appreciate it. 
JARO: Commander, Starfleet doesn't consult us when they wish to promote one of their officers. 
SISKO: Are you suggesting that this is a promotion for Kira? 
JARO: Certainly it is. We must find the proper spot for her. After all, she's the one who brought Li Nalas back to us. 
SISKO: Well then, that's a different matter. 
JARO: I'm glad you see it. 
SISKO: Yes, of course I do. For a minute I was thinking to myself, there's a warm wind blowing in from Minicoy. 
JARO: I'm sorry? 
SISKO: Just an old saying where I come from. It all started with a famous Ambassador from Minicoy who used to bluster, exaggerate, and dissemble to get what he wanted. Not at all like you or me. He was a bag of hot air and everyone recognised him for what he was. 
JARO: May I assume you are satisfied with the assignment of Li to fill your vacant post? 
SISKO: I thought you'd want Li to stay in the capital to strengthen the provisional government. 
JARO: Frankly, I'm not sure it's safe in the capital with what's going on these days. 
SISKO: The Circle? 
JARO: The fires and graffiti were a nuisance, but two days ago, one of my fellow ministers was attacked and beaten. We can't risk the same thing happening to Li Nalas. Look at it this way, Commander. We're entrusting you with Bajor's greatest hero. Could you have a better liaison officer than Li Nalas? I think not. 
(Jaro leaves and O'Brien comes to the door) 
O'BRIEN: Commander, your son's been waiting to speak with you on the com. 
SISKO: Jake? 
JAKE [OC]: Dad? I'm outside our quarters. Could you come down for a minute? 
SISKO: Is something wrong? 
JAKE [OC]: I really think you ought to come down, Dad. 
SISKO: On my way. 
[Outside Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: What's the problem? 
JAKE: Look. 
(the graffito is on their front door) 
[Kira's quarters]
(Kira is packing) 
KIRA: Come in. 
ODO: You're not? 
KIRA: Leaving? I really don't have much choice, do I 
ODO: You're not just leaving, Major. You're surrendering. 
KIRA: You break the rules, you pay. 
ODO: Wait a minute. I want to be sure I heard that correctly. Because it doesn't sound like the Kira Nerys who has made a career out of breaking the rules. 
KIRA: Well, I guess I broke one too many. 
ODO: Major, you've been breaking one too many for fourteen and a half years. Cardassian rules, Bajoran rules, Federation rules, they're all meaningless to you because you have a personal code that's always mattered more. And I'm sorry to say you're in slim company. 
KIRA: I'll miss you too, Odo. 
ODO: Have you asked Sisko for help? 
KIRA: I'm sure he'll do whatever he thinks is best for the station. 
ODO: You haven't even gone to him? 
KIRA: Well what do you want me to do, Odo? 
ODO: Fight for what you want. It's what you do best. 
KIRA: Maybe I just want a vacation. 
ODO: Idiotic bureaucracy. Now I suppose they'll expect me to break in a new man. 
KIRA: A great man. Li Nalas can handle the job, believe me. 
ODO: You did fairly well at it once I smoothed your rough edges. 
KIRA: Ha! 
ODO: What's so funny? 
KIRA: I thought you did fairly well, once I smoothed your edges. 
(doorbell) 
KIRA: Yes? 
DAX: Am I disturbing anything? 
KIRA: Stick around, you can help me cry in my synthale. 
DAX: I thought I'd better return this epidellic lotion. 
KIRA: No, if you like it 
DAX: Oh, it's wonderful. 
KIRA: Well then, keep it. 
ODO: How can you be chatting about skin lotion at a time like this? 
(doorbell) 
DAX: Do you have any idea where you'll be stationed? 
KIRA: Come in. Not yet. They say that after I've taken some leave time, I've earned a desk at the foreign affairs building somewhere. Doctor. 
DAX: Foreign affairs building? 
BASHIR: I came to give you my best. 
DAX: Well that's rather dull. 
BASHIR: I beg your pardon? 
KIRA: Dull is a polite word for it. 
ODO: Doctor, if you were Kira, wouldn't you at least be complaining to Commander Sisko? 
BASHIR: Look, I just wanted to wish you good luck. 
KIRA: Thank you, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Complaining about what? 
ODO: Never mind, Doctor. If she doesn't care, why should we? 
BASHIR: Have they given you any reason yet? 
DAX: Did they give you any alternative? 
KIRA: I do care. No, they haven't. No, they didn't. I really ought to finish packing. 
(doorbell) 
BASHIR: You said she doesn't care. You mean about leaving 
KIRA: By all means, come on in. 
(O'Brien enters) 
ODO: She's done well here. She ought to stay here. And I'd say she needs a little support from her friends, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Well, yes, certainly, but if her orders 
O'BRIEN: Er. 
KIRA: Chief. Come in. 
O'BRIEN: I didn't mean to intrude. I just 
BASHIR: Don't worry, Chief. It's all been said. 
ODO: I have a good deal more to say, thank you, Doctor. 
O'BRIEN: Look, I could come back. 
DAX: Odo, leave her alone. This is Kira's decision to make. Unless of course you want me to talk to Sisko. 
KIRA: I knew what I was doing. I knew the risk. 
ODO: That's not what she asked. 
O'BRIEN: I'd just like to say, Major, it's been a pleasure serving with you. 
(doorbell) 
KIRA: Come in. 
BASHIR: Will somebody please explain this conversation to me? 
QUARK: A party! For you, I would've reduced my catering rates. 
ODO: It's not a party. 
QUARK: Whatever. 
ODO: What's that? 
KIRA: A bottle of my favorite synthale, I think. That's very thoughtful, Quark. 
ODO: It's also very small. 
QUARK: I was anticipating a far smaller gathering. I thought, perhaps, an intimate farewell drink, a sympathetic smile, a shoulder to cry on. 
O'BRIEN: As I was saying, Major 
QUARK: You'd be surprised how often that works with women. 
KIRA: Is this a joke? Did you plan this? 
BASHIR: Nobody could have planned this. 
(doorbell) 
KIRA: We're open for business. Come on in. Join the crowd. Vedek Bareil. 
BAREIL: I hope I'm not interrupting. 
KIRA: No. Please come in. These are my (pause) These are my friends. I had no idea you were coming to the space station. 
BAREIL: Nowadays it's probably wiser not to announce those things. 
ODO: How bad is it on Bajor, Vedek? 
BAREIL: The violence has seriously escalated. It almost seems there are more weapons on the streets now than during the occupation. 
KIRA: How could that be? Where would they be coming from? 
BAREIL: I try to concentrate on more spiritual matters. 
KIRA: Yes, of course, I mean, I didn't mean to suggest that you 
BAREIL: I understand your duties here are finished. 
KIRA: Yes, they are. 
BAREIL: Do you have any immediate plans? 
KIRA: I haven't really had much chance to give it any thought. 
BAREIL: Then perhaps I have the perfect solution. Come and stay at our monastery for a while. It can help when the spirit gets a little bruised. 
KIRA: Thank you. 
[Ops]
LI: Major? 
KIRA: I just want you to know that if there's anything I can do to help? 
LI: Major, I'm sorry. I didn't want this job. 
KIRA: Neither did I. I mean, back when I was sent here in the first place. But it turned out better than I expected. I'm sure it will for you as well. 
LI: I don't even know what I'm supposed to do here. How does a Navarch fit into this command structure? 
SISKO: As I understand the position, you report directly to the Prophets. But from time to time, I might ask for your help. 
LI: Commander, anything you need from me, I will try my best to do, but I know that I can never replace Major Kira. 
SISKO: No one could. 
KIRA: Thank you, sir. Request permission to disembark. 
SISKO: I'm going to get you back, Major. I promise that to both of us. 
KIRA: (to turbolift) Docking bay three. 
[Monastery garden]
(Kira is apparently repairing the stone lining of a pond) 
BAREIL: May I make a friendly observation? 
KIRA: It's crooked. 
BAREIL: It's crooked. 
KIRA: I've been adjusting it for an hour. It looks fine from over here, but then I go over there and. This isn't working, Bareil 
BAREIL: It's only a row of stones. 
KIRA: No, it isn't. It's me. The stones are straight. I'm the one who's crooked. 
BAREIL: Is that really how you see yourself? 
KIRA: Sometimes. Sometimes I even like being that way. If I stay here long enough, I'm sure I could destroy your entire arboretum. 
BAREIL: Perhaps you'd rather try your hand at woodcrafts. 
KIRA: Can I tell you something very personal? 
BAREIL: Of course. 
KIRA: And you won't tell. 
BAREIL: I'm a Vedek. 
KIRA: I have absolutely no artistic skills. I was the worst fingerpainter at the four year old level. My parents were humiliated. 
BAREIL: It'll be our secret. 
KIRA: The point is, I'm useless here. 
BAREIL: So? 
KIRA: So? I need to feel useful. 
BAREIL: It might be interesting to explore useless for a while. See how it feels. 
KIRA: You don't know me. 
BAREIL: I'm beginning to. It's time, isn't it? 
KIRA: Time? 
BAREIL: Come inside with me. 
KIRA: I really should finish the 
BAREIL: Come. 
[Orb Shrine]
KIRA: I've never been to this part of the monastery before. 
BAREIL: May it be the first of many visits. 
KIRA: Bareil, maybe we should talk about 
(Then she sees it.) 
KIRA: Oh, Bareil. All my life I've dreamed of this. 
(Bareil opens the orb case.) 
BAREIL: It is the third orb, the orb of prophecy and change. 
KIRA: What do I do? 
BAREIL: Be useless, Nerys. Allow the prophets to guide you. 
(Bareil leaves and Kira gets a vision) 
[Kira's vision]
(Kira, in uniform, is being feted or harangued by Bajoran politicians) 
KIRA: The Chamber of Ministers. 
(Dax as a Vedek) 
KIRA: Dax. 
DAX: Listen to them, Kira. 
KIRA: I can't hear them. 
DAX: It's all right. Listen. 
(They embrace, then Dax is Winn.) 
WINN: Can you hear them now, child? 
JARO: I hear them, Major. They're calling to me. 
(Bareil in a Major's uniform) 
BAREIL: Don't listen to him, Nerys. Allow yourself to hear them. They are calling to you. 
(Kira is naked) 
WINN: Blasphemy. 
BAREIL: Listen to them, Nerys. 
KIRA: Help me to hear them. I don't know how. 
BAREIL: But you do. 
(A naked Bareil is behind her.) 
BAREIL: You do. 
(Kira leans against Bareil) 
BAREIL: You do. 
(Just as they are about to kiss, the vision ends) 
[Security office]
(An update on the situation over the Bajoran Regional Comms Network) 
OFFICER [on monitor]: Last night alone we had dozens of beatings. They're everywhere, then we go looking for them and they're nowhere. 
ODO: Which would suggest they have powerful friends to warn them, and protect them. 
OFFICER [on monitor]: Probably. We've got to put a stop to this before it gets out of hand. The provisional government is bringing troops into the capital, 
(Quark enters) 
ODO: Troops? 
OFFICER [on monitor]: That will put an end to the Circle. You keep your eyes open up there, old friend. 
ODO: I always do. 
(transmission ends) 
ODO: No, I haven't made any progress in finding the ones who assaulted you. 
QUARK: It's over, Odo. 
ODO: The investigation isn't closed, it's just a matter of 
QUARK: No, you don't understand. It's over. 
ODO: What are you talking about? 
QUARK: Everything. Bajor. The provisional government. The Federation being here. All of it. We've got to leave. Well, I do anyway. You can just turn into a couch. 
ODO: You mean because of this Circle business? They're just a bunch of hooligans who use violence to get attention. 
QUARK: I happen to know they've got enough weapons and explosives and supplies to support an army. 
ODO: How do you know that? 
QUARK: I've been asking questions of people who don't answer questions from people like you. 
ODO: Where would the Circle be getting so many weapons? 
QUARK: The Kressari. 
ODO: The Kressari? That doesn't make sense. The Kressari don't even have a military. They're botanic DNA traders, 
QUARK: Well they're not delivering flowers these days. I know, Odo. 
ODO: Computer, when's the next Kressari vessel due here? 
COMPUTER: The Kressari vessel Calondon is scheduled to arrive in thirty six hours. 
ODO: Do you know where these weapons are being sent to on Bajor? 
QUARK: No, not exactly. 
ODO: Find out. 
QUARK: Are you out of your mind? My plan is to put as much distance as possible between me and Bajor, thank you very much. 
ODO: Quark. I hate to do this, but I guess I'll have to. 
QUARK: That's not fair. 
ODO: I haven't done anything yet. 
QUARK: Whatever you're going to do, it's not fair. 
ODO: You're a deputy. 
QUARK: It's not. What? 
ODO: You're a deputy. I want you to find out where the weapons are going on Bajor. Meanwhile, I'm going to find out exactly where they're coming from. 
QUARK: You and me, a team? 
ODO: That's right. 
(Quark breaks into hysterical laughter.) 
QUARK: Goodbye. 
ODO: Either that or I'm putting you in a cell. 
QUARK: That's not fair! On what charge. 
ODO: Impeding an investigation. Unless you want to reveal the identities of the people you've been talking to. 
QUARK: You know I can't do that. 
ODO: It's your choice. You're a deputy, or you're a prisoner. 
QUARK: I'm a deputy. 
[Ops]
SISKO: I've got to go to Bajor. Odo has some information that suggests we may be facing a coup. I've got to check things out 
LI: Is there any way I can help? 
SISKO: Your Military contacts. See if you can get a feeling for how much support the provisional government has. 
LI: No problem. What about the station while you're gone? 
SISKO: Dax and Mister O'Brien can handle things in Ops. If you need any other help 
LI: Help? I can't even sneeze without three people handing me handkerchiefs. But I was thinking we might want to establish a curfew. Another cargo bay was vandalised last night. 
SISKO: Good idea. I've asked Odo to assign you a bodyguard. 
LI: That's not necessary. 
SISKO: I think it is. (turbolift) Docking bay one. 
[Monastery garden]
KIRA: Woodcrafts. Definitely the way to go. 
BAREIL: Is that where the Prophets led you? 
KIRA: Yeah, lots of hammers and nails and saws surrounded by monks and vedeks. Very safe and secure 
BAREIL: You don't want to talk about it. 
KIRA: No. 
BAREIL: Can I tell you something very personal? 
KIRA: I'm not a Vedek but I can keep a secret. 
BAREIL: The last time I encountered the third orb, you were a part of my vision. 
KIRA: Me? 
BAREIL: It's the reason that I came to the station, to invite you here. 
KIRA: What part did I play in your vision? 
BAREIL: It's not important. I was just wondering if I was part of yours. 
KIRA: No. No, you weren't. 
(Distant rumbles) 
BAREIL: How could there be a storm on a day as lovely as this? 
KIRA: That's not thunder. I know that sound. That's gunfire. 
WINN: (on a bridge over their path) How pleasant to come upon such a flowing exchange of spiritual harmony. 
BAREIL: Vedek Winn. 
WINN: We've met before, haven't we? Major? Major? 
KIRA: Kira Nerys. 
WINN: That's right. Major Kira. From the space station. What brings you here? 
BAREIL: I do, Vedek Winn. 
WINN: Good for you, Vedek Bareil. After working so hard, you deserve a little recreation. 
BAREIL: Major Kira is here to explore her pagh. 
WINN: A worthy endeavour for someone who has led such a life of violence, child. And I'm sure the Assembly would have had no objection to your encounter with an orb had Vedek Bareil consulted us. 
BAREIL: No one has ever been held to that formality. 
WINN: You're right, of course. But I've always consulted with the Assembly in advance. I think of it as a courtesy, nothing more, nothing less. How long will you be with us, Major? 
KIRA: I'm not sure. 
WINN: Feel free to stay as many days as you like. Even a week, if necessary. 
[War room]
(A big map on the wall and a curved conference desk) 
KRIM: Have them withdraw from the Northeast quadrant. Move them to join the fourteenth column south of the city. 
SISKO: General Krim. I'm Benjamin Sisko. We met during a session of the executive committee last year. 
KRIM: I remember, Commander. I was impressed by your talk. 
SISKO: As I recall, you disagreed with all of it. 
KRIM: Yes, but you presented your arguments well. What can I do for you? 
SISKO: I understand you're in command of the forces defending the city. 
KRIM: I'd hardly call it defending the city. 
SISKO: There is concern in some quarters that the military is unwilling to confront the forces of the Circle. 
KRIM: I don't know with whom you've been speaking, Commander. 
SISKO: I've been observing troop movements. Every time there is a potential confrontation, the military withdraws to a safer position. 
KRIM: You can't possibly appreciate that this is Bajoran against Bajoran. 
SISKO: I can appreciate that the provisional government will stand only if the military supports it. 
KRIM: We are all patriots, Commander. 
SISKO: We have intelligence that the Circle is being armed by the Kressari. 
KRIM: The Kressari? I hadn't heard that. 
SISKO: We've been trying to track the movements of their shipments. If we can determine where they're stored 
KRIM: I'd like to know. 
SISKO: You'll be the first one I contact. 
KRIM: Thank you. 
SISKO: There is one other thing, General. My first officer, Major Kira Nerys. 
KRIM: Yes, I know Major Kira. 
SISKO: I understand she hasn't been reassigned yet. It would mean a great deal to me to get her back. 
KRIM: That's out of my purview, Commander. You might want to discuss it with Minister Jaro. Commander Sisko, you told me about the Kressari before you asked the favour regarding Kira. You could've tried to trade that information for the favour. 
SISKO: I wouldn't do that. 
KRIM: I'll remember that about you. 
[Ops]
DAX: He's calling again. 
LI: What do you think we should do? 
DAX: I think he's getting tired of seeing me smile. 
LI: Anything new from O'Brien or Odo? 
DAX: They haven't come up with anything yet. 
LI: All right. Put him on the screen. I will give this a try. 
LI: I am First Officer Li Nalas. Can I help you? 
(The Kressari appear to be spiky cousins of the Narn from Babylon 5) 
ZEF'NO [on viewscreen]: Somebody had better be able to help me. I have been delayed for six hours. I can assure you the Kressarian government will lodge a formal protest 
LI: My apologies. Apparently has been some confusion with your manifest interface with our computer inventory system that had to be 
ZEF'NO [on viewscreen]: Yes, yes I know all that. I didn't know they were going to be opening every container in my cargo hold. You understand these are highly sensitive herbaceous materials? 
LI: I'm sure that all necessary precautions are being. 
ZEF'NO [on viewscreen]: This is ridiculous. I have a schedule to keep. 
LI: We should be able to have this all cleared up in a few minutes. 
ZEF'NO [on viewscreen]: That's what I was told a few hours ago. 
[Kressari cargo bay]
(O'Brien is carrying a container) 
DAX [OC]: Dax to O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, Lieutenant. 
DAX [OC]: We don't want to hold up the Kressari any longer than necessary. 
O'BRIEN: Well, there isn't much more we can accomplish for now 
DAX: The ship's due back here the day after tomorrow. Perhaps we'll be able to correct any additional problems then. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, we'd come to the same conclusion. O'Brien out. Fair voyage to you, Captain. 
(O'Brien leaves.) 
ZEF'NO: Prepare for immediate departure. 
(A panel on that container turns into a rat) 
[Monastery garden]
SISKO: Major. 
KIRA: Commander. I didn't hear you. 
SISKO: I'm sorry if I interrupted your meditation. 
KIRA: Daydream. 
SISKO: Daydreaming. I think I remember doing that a long, long time ago. 
KIRA: I've discovered it's like riding a bicycle. It comes back to you right away. 
SISKO: Can I bring you back to reality for a minute? 
KIRA: Back to reality, or back to DS Nine? 
SISKO: Are you still interested? 
KIRA: A lot has happened here. I encountered an orb, Commander. It's given me a great deal to think about. 
SISKO: They do have a way of doing that, don't they? Well, I just came to let you to know that we haven't given up yet, but for the moment there seem to be some bigger problems for the leaders down here. 
KIRA: I heard the gunfire in the distance. 
SISKO: That distance is getting closer. The Circle is for real, Major. They've been armed for a coup and I'm not at all convinced that the military's going to back the provisional government. 
KIRA: I didn't realise. We've been so isolated. 
SISKO: Well, I guess I'd better get back. 
KIRA: Commander. Me too. 
SISKO: I told you I haven't given up. 
(After Sisko has left, three men disguised as monks kidnap Kira) 
[Kressari cargo bay]
(The rat is keeping watch) 
ZEF'NO: Begin transport. 
CARDASSIAN: I think you'll find everything's in order. 
(Zef'no scans the container into the manifest PADD) 
ZEF'NO: Very well. If you'll sign off on the shipment, we'll be on our way. 
(The Cardassian puts his thumb print on the PADD) 
CARDASSIAN: Return transport. 
[Underground bunker]
(The Circle symbol is here, and lots of activity) 
JARO: Good afternoon. 
KIRA: So, you're involved with the Circle. 
JARO: I am the Circle, Major. 
KIRA: Now I understand why you wanted to ship Li Nalas off to the station. 
JARO: The last thing I need right now is a great war hero capturing the devotion of the Bajoran people. 
KIRA: How can you betray your own government? 
JARO: Major, I don't have to tell you. I've heard your opinion of this government. Government. They can't even agree it is a government, so they call it provisional. It's just another word for powerless. I won't allow the Bajoran people to be powerless any more. We have been doormats to the Cardassians and now the Federation. Any great power that happens by. We will not be that again. We are a people who brought art and architecture to countless planets. We don't deserve to be victims. 
KIRA: If you want to change the government, Minister Jaro, you vote to change it. You don't sneak up from behind it with a dagger. 
JARO: We'll discuss politics another time. I need to know, please, what the Federation will do once our objective becomes clear. Major, I've heard you have no love for the Federation. I'm not an unreasonable man. I'm willing to send you back to the station if that's what you want. I'll give you that station after we get rid of Starfleet. Now, do you believe they will continue to support the provisional government? 
KIRA: How about our own military? I'd worry about them first if I were you. 
JARO: What will the Federation do, Major? What will Sisko do? You know him better than any Bajoran. No one despises the Cardassians more than I, Major, but we did learn a few things from them. Like how to encourage people to talk. 
MAN: Let's go. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Bareil said there were no signs of a struggle. 
BASHIR: Maybe somebody saw them leave. 
SISKO: That's what we need to find out. 
O'BRIEN: What if they transported her off the grounds? 
SISKO: Let's hope they didn't. Now, we can't expect much help from the local authorities. They've got their hands full. 
LI: Commander. I should be able to get some cooperation. If my name carries any weight, let's use it. 
SISKO: Good. When's Odo due back? 
O'BRIEN: Not for another twelve hours. 
(Quark enters) 
QUARK: Who needs Odo when you've got his number one deputy? 
DAX: Quark, this isn't the time. 
QUARK: No, this is exactly the time. I think I know where you can find Kira. 
SISKO: Go on. 
QUARK: You see, Odo blackmailed me into helping him, a matter I've been meaning to bring to your attention, Commander. 
SISKO: Quark. 
QUARK: I managed to find out where the Circle's headquarters is. In the labyrinths beneath the Perikian Peninsula. 
SISKO: Sisko to Security. 
SECURITY [OC]: Go ahead. 
SISKO: I need a couple of officers to go on a rescue mission to Bajor. Report to runabout pad C. 
SECURITY [OC]: On our way. 
SISKO: Doctor, Lieutenant, you're with me. Mister O'Brien, you'll be our pilot. Configure the runabout sensors for a full sweep of the peninsula. Once we find the base, I'll be depending a great deal on your famous transporter talents. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
LI: Commander, I'm going. 
SISKO: No, it's too dangerous. 
LI: Don't you understand? I can do this. I don't know what it means to be a Navarch. But I can fight in the trenches and I take orders well. Besides, I owe her one. 
SISKO: Dax, you're in charge. 
QUARK: We can discuss appropriate compensation for this at a more convenient time. 
[Underground bunker]
(Weapons are being handed out) 
VOICE: Two men, sector D. Take your position. 
REBEL: Yes, sir. 
(The rescue party beam into a tunnel) 
SISKO: Only five but they've got more firearms than a galaxy class starship. 
(Kira crying out) 
BASHIR: Where the hell's it coming from? 
SISKO: All right, straight power play, nothing fancy. Expect heavy resistance. Anyone who finds Kira, pin this on her (a comm. badge) and call for transport immediately. Let's do it. 
(Straight into a gunfight, hiding behind packing cases. Kira is tied up on am upper ledge.) 
BASHIR: Kira! 
(Bashir goes up and unties her. He gets shot, and Li shoots his attacker. Kira picks up the comm. badge) 
BASHIR: Chief, get us out of here! 
[Infirmary]
(Bashir is healing Kira's wounds) 
KIRA: We don't have time for this. Ouch. 
BASHIR: Do not talk. 
SISKO: We have to assume Jaro will move quickly now that we've got you back. 
KIRA: Li's the only chance we've got. 
LI: Me? 
KIRA: Jaro knows you're the only force that could stop him. If we could get him to the Chamber of Ministers. 
SISKO: It's much too great a risk. He'd be dead before he had a chance to speak. 
ODO: Courtesy of a Cardassian weapon. The Circle's being supplied by the Cardassians. 
KIRA: What? 
ODO: I borrowed the proof. (the manifest PADD) It's got a Gul's thumbscan on it. 
KIRA: The Circle hates the Cardassians. 
ODO: They don't know it is the Cardassians. They think they've been buying from Kressari traders. 
LI: I don't understand. Why would the Cardassians want to help Jaro if he hates them? 
BASHIR: Because it gets them what they want the most. 
SISKO: Rid of us. They're just using Jaro. Once the Federation is forced to leave 
LI: The Cardassians come back. We've got to do something. I've got to do something. 
SISKO: Sisko to Ops. 
DAX [OC]: Go ahead. 
SISKO: Dax, open a channel to Bajor. 
[Ops]
SISKO [OC]: Tell them that Navarch Li Nalas wants to address the Chamber of Ministers on subspace. 
DAX: I can't do it, Benjamin. All frequencies 
[Infirmary]
DAX [OC]: To Bajor are jammed. We lost all communication with the planet five minutes ago. 
KIRA: Then it has started. 
SISKO: Get me Admiral Chekote at Starfleet Command. 
[Shrine]
JARO: I feel the Prophets smiling on me today, Vedek. 
WINN: The Prophets have rarely encountered a pagh as forceful as yours, Minister Jaro. 
JARO: So what's it to be, Winn? 
WINN: Be? 
JARO: Don't tease me. 
WINN: I can't interpret the prophecies for you, Essa. 
JARO: I know the future. It belongs to me. I don't need your interpretation. 
WINN: Then what? 
JARO: Your support. 
WINN: I've made it very clear to you how I feel. 
JARO: Your public support. 
WINN: Support from the Vedek of an order so small as mine surely would not be significant. 
JARO: You stand for a return to orthodox values, as do I. We're a match made by the Prophets. 
WINN: I wish there were more with that opinion. Unfortunately, as my Assembly approaches the selection of a new Kai, I fear my voice is rarely heard. 
JARO: That can change. 
WINN: Can it? 
JARO: Think of the prestige of having the new leader of Bajor being a member of your order. 
WINN: If you are the new leader. 
JARO: Have the Prophets given you reason to doubt it? 
WINN: I didn't say that. 
JARO: Then let them bless my ascension. Tell the people the Prophets are with me. 
WINN: That's a lot to ask. 
JARO: I know that. 
WINN: I need more than just prestige, Essa. 
JARO: I know that too. 
WINN: The people need leadership to return to the old values. Yours and mine. 
JARO: I can think of no one more worthy of being the next Kai than you, Winn. I shall do everything in my power to see that you are. 
WINN: The Prophets are smiling on you today, Minister. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Dax? 
DAX: I have Admiral Chekote on subspace. 
SISKO: In my office. 
O'BRIEN: Commander. Two assault vessels are headed this way on direct course from Bajor. They're giving all non-Bajorans seven hours to evacuate. 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: Admiral, are you up to date on my communiqu�s? 
CHEKOTE [on monitor]: I think so, Commander. How's it look? 
SISKO: Not good. Jaro has the military, communications have been cut off and assault vessels are on the way here. 
CHEKOTE [on monitor]: Are you preparing to withdraw? 
SISKO: Admiral, we've just obtained evidence that the Circle's been receiving weapons from the Cardassians. If we withdraw, we'll be giving Bajor and the wormhole back to them. 
CHEKOTE [on monitor]: Damn. That's a hell of a turn. How can these Bajorans get in bed with the Cardassians? 
SISKO: They don't even know the Cardassians are involved. 
CHEKOTE [on monitor]: Then you're saying it's a genuine political revolution internal to Bajor. 
SISKO: Supported by the Cardassians. 
CHEKOTE [on monitor]: But internal to Bajor. The Cardassians might involve themselves in other people's civil wars, but we don't. The Prime Directive applies, Ben. 
SISKO: Admiral. 
CHEKOTE [on monitor]: Would you say our people on the station are in danger? 
SISKO: Yes. 
CHEKOTE [on monitor]:: There's no other choice but to evacuate. We'll have to worry about the long term political implications down the road. That's an order, Commander. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Chief, how long will it take us to evacuate Deep Space Nine? 
O'BRIEN: I'd say we could have all our people out and away in three hours. 
SISKO: I mean a complete evacuation. I intend to take all Starfleet instruments, materiel. In fact, all Federation property of every kind. How quickly can we do that? 
O'BRIEN: Sir, that'll take days. A week, for all I know. But those assault ships are going to be here in seven hours. 
SISKO: Then I guess some of us won't quite be done by the time they get here. 
To Be Continued...

