Episode Number: 458
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Past Tense part 2
Past Tense, part 2
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 9 Jan, 1995
Last time on Star Trek Deep Space Nine 
O'BRIEN: I think I know what happened to Commander Sisko and the others. The transporter beam was redirected as it passed through the polarised particles. 
KIRA: Redirected where? 
O'BRIEN: Not where, when. 
SISKO: You ever hear of the Bell Riots? It was one of the most violent civil disturbances in American history, and it happened right here. San Francisco, Sanctuary District A, the first week of September, twenty twenty four. 
BASHIR: That's only a few days from now. 
SISKO: The Riots will be one of the watershed events of the twenty first century. Gabriel Bell will see to that. 
DAX: I still haven't found my friends. 
CHRIS: And you think they might be in a Sanctuary District? 
DAX: It's possible. If you hadn't found me, I might've wound up in one. 
WEBB: This place is about to explode. Most of us agreed to live here because they promised us jobs. I don't know about you, but I haven't been on any job interviews lately. 
SISKO: That man who just got killed trying to help us? That man was Gabriel Bell. 
(The riot starts.) 
SISKO: Give me that. Get back. 
(Sisko fires into a brazier. Bashir goes to help Bernardo.) 
BASHIR: Get away. Get away from him. 
SISKO: Come on. We have to get him off the street. 
BC: I've waited a long time for this. And I know I won't be disappointed. Ain't that right, new boy? 
SISKO: The name is Bell. Gabriel Bell. 
And now the conclusion.
[Processing Centre]
(Sirens and helicopters can be heard outside) 
BC: Hey, what are you looking at? 
BERNARDO: Nothing. 
BC: If you're trying to find a way out, forget it Bernardo. You ain't going anywhere. None of you are. 
LEE: What are you going to do with us? 
BC: I was going to let you think about that for a little bit. Now, everybody, against the wall. Sit down over there. Move! Move it! If any of them moves, shoot'em. 
SISKO: No one's shooting anyone. 
BC: Maybe, maybe not. 
SISKO: We need them alive. They're the only thing we have to bargain with. 
BC: You think I didn't know that? 
SISKO: Just making sure. We need to get these blinds closed. 
BASHIR: The police will drop snipers on the roofs across the street, pick us off one by one. 
BC: All right, let's use the benches as barricades. We'll stack them up against the windows. It's too bad. I kind of like watching this place burn. 
(Vin points his gun at BC.) 
VIN: Drop your weapons. What's so funny? 
BC: You. You're dead. 
(Sisko knocks Vin out of the way as the shot is fired, Lee screams, BC aims his weapon at her) 
BC: Shut up! That's enough! I said shut up! 
BASHIR: Leave her alone. She's just scared. Listen, calm down. No one's going to hurt you. 
SISKO: Get over there with the others. 
VIN: I know you. I picked you up the other day. 
SISKO: I know. It's my way of saying thank you. Now get over there with the others! 
BC: Hey, nice tackle, Bell. You ever play any football? 
SISKO: Baseball, actually. 
BC: Really, I'd hate to be a catcher and seeing you barreling towards home plate. Hey, you, get up. 
VIN: Leave her alone. 
BC: Oh, nice mouth. All right, you get up. I said get up. 
SISKO: What are you doing? 
BC: Relax. I just want to see what they're saying about us on the Net. I need his access code to log on. Don't make me ask you again. 
VIN: Get lost. 
BC: After you. 
BERNARDO: Wait. I'll do it. 
VIN: What are you doing? Sit down. 
BERNARDO: Hey, Vin, we're not on duty now so don't give me orders. I just want to make it home in one piece. 
BC: Smart boy. Move. Get back there. 
SISKO: I know what you're thinking. It's not going to be easy keeping the hostages safe. 
BASHIR: It's not just them I'm worried about, it's you. Didn't you say Gabriel Bell died when the police stormed the building? 
SISKO: Right. But I'm not Bell. 
BASHIR: No, but we're the only one's who know that. 
(They're watching a streamed news report.) 
NEWSCASTER [OC]: National Guard units are mobilising now and should reach Sanctuary District A within the hour. Governor Chen has issued a statement saying the uprising will be quelled and District secured. It's still not clear how this riot began, though rumours of mounting tensions have been filtering out of the district for weeks. 
BC: This is great. We're on every channel. I bet they're even watching this in China. Why do they sound so surprised? When you treat people like animals, you're gonna get bit. 
WEBB: Let me through. 
MAN: Stop right there. 
BC: Hey, who said you could come in here? 
SISKO: It's okay. Let him in. 
BC: You know this gimmie? 
SISKO: He's a friend. 
BC: Go join your friends. 
SISKO: Glad to see you're all right. 
WEBB: So much for our peaceful demonstration. 
SISKO: I know it's not what we talked about, but it's what happened and now we have to deal with it. 
WEBB: How? It's a madhouse out there and this building is crawling with ghosts. 
SISKO: I know. That's the first thing we have to fix. I want you to go out and find gimmies, people you know, people who can be trusted to guard the hostages. 
BASHIR: If we leave it to the ghosts, there's no telling what could happen. 
WEBB: I think I know just the people you're looking for. 
SISKO: Good. We're going to need them. 
BC: Hey, Bell. You're really missing something over here. 
[Chris's office]
NEWSCASTER [OC]: Many of the district employees fleeing the riot have been reported injured and several have yet to be accounted for. There's been no official count of injuries among Sanctuary residents, however satellite pictures show a number of possible casualties. We'll have more on this story as information becomes available. 
CHRIS: This is terrible. 
DAX: I've got to get down there. 
CHRIS: What are you talking about? 
DAX: My friends are in there. 
CHRIS: I know they are, but there's nothing you can do for them. 
DAX: I have to try. 
CHRIS: Jadzia, it is too dangerous. You could get hurt. 
DAX: I just can't stay here and watching that place burn, knowing my friends are inside. 
CHRIS: Look, I have friends in the police department. When things settle down a little bit, I'll talk to them. 
DAX: I can't wait that long. By the time things settle down, my friends could be hurt or even killed. They don't belong in there. None of those people do. 
First officer's log, supplemental. Somehow Sisko, Dax, and Bashir have altered Earth's history. We have no choice but to send an away team into the past, to try to find them and to correct the changes to the timeline. The only problem is, we're not exactly sure where to look or when. 
[Transporter room]
(O'Brien is recapping the tech solution to Odo for our benefit.) 
O'BRIEN: According to our computer simulations, the degree of temporal displacement is directly proportional to the number of chroniton particles interacting with the transporter beam. Unfortunately, there's no way to know the exact concentration of particles at the time of the accident, but I've narrowed it down to ten possibilities, each one corresponding with a different time frame. One of them has to be right. We just hope we find the right one before we run out of chroniton particles. 
(Kira enters with a plaster over her nose and no earring) 
KIRA: I feel ridiculous. 
ODO: Well, it does effectively disguise your Bajoran heritage. 
O'BRIEN: Just say you broke your nose. On the other hand, maybe you'd better say nothing. I'll do the talking. 
KIRA: That's fine with me. 
ODO: Good luck. 
KIRA: Energise. 
[San Francisco - 1930s]
O'BRIEN: If this is where Commander Sisko and the others materialized, there should be a residual electrostatic charge. 
KIRA: Kira to Sisko. Kira to Dax. Kira to Bashir. 
(There's a car parked nearby) 
O'BRIEN: Judging from this vehicle, I'd say we were somewhere in the mid-twentieth century. 
KIRA: No one's responding to my hails. 
O'BRIEN: I'm not reading any electrostatic variance or any distress signals. They're definitely not here. 
KIRA: How long before the transporter re-engages? 
O'BRIEN: About thirty seconds. 
(A couple come out of a Speakeasy) 
O'BRIEN: Evening. 
KIRA: I broke my nose. 
(The couple leave, laughing.) 
O'BRIEN: I told you not to say anything. 
[Processing Centre - Lee's cubicle]
BC: I've got one question for you two. What are all these gimmies doing here? 
WEBB: I asked them to help. 
BC: And who invited you? 
SISKO: I did. 
BC: Look, last time I checked this was my party. That means I get to decide who's on the guest list and who isn't. 
SISKO: We needed people we could trust in here. 
BC: What's that supposed to mean? 
SISKO: How many ghosts do you know who you can really trust? 
BC: One. Me. And that's enough. 
SISKO: No, it isn't. Not here. Not now. 
WEBB: We need people to guard the building, watch the exits, keep an eye on the hostages when we need to sleep. 
BC: All right, all right, you made your point. Just keep them out of my hair. 
SISKO: The important thing we have to decide is what we're going to do with those hostages. 
BC: Don't have to worry about that. I've got it all figured out. 
WEBB: I bet you do. 
BC: And just to prove I'm not such a bad guy, I'm going to let you two in on it. It's simple. We trade the hostages for our freedom. We get amnesty, a handful of credit chips, and a flight to anywhere we want. Personally, I'm thinking Tasmania. 
SISKO: Tasmania. 
BC: Errol Flynn was born in Tasmania. Look, you guys go where you want and I'll go where I want, all right? 
WEBB: Yeah, and as soon as we step off the plane, they lock us up. 
SISKO: Besides, we can't just think about ourselves. There are ten thousand people living in here. 
BC: Well let them get their own hostages. 
WEBB: No, Gabe is right. This is an opportunity for us to be heard. To let people on the outside know exactly what's going on in here. 
SISKO: You want to make demands, I'll give you some demands. We tell them if they want the hostages back, they've got to shut down the Sanctuaries. 
WEBB: And reinstate the Federal Employment Act. 
BC: Why don't you have them throw in a couple of silk shirts, maybe a penthouse in Singapore. Jobs? You guys want jobs? When are you going to get it? There are no jobs. Not for us, anyway. 
SISKO: They'll find jobs. They'll have to. After tonight, they won't be able to ignore us anymore. 
BC: All right. All right, we'll do it your way. I'll log onto the Interface and I'll tell them that we want the District closed. 
SISKO: Not you. Him. 
WEBB: Funny, I would have nominated you. 
BC: What? Is there something wrong with me? I can be as eloquent as the next guy. 
SISKO: I'm sure you can. But they can't dismiss Webb as easily as you or me. He's got the face. He's got the family. He's the guy next door. And that's what they need to see. 
[Processing Centre]
(At the terminal) 
WEBB: My name is Michael Webb. I used to be a Plant Manager at ChemTech Industries. I'm speaking for the residents of Sanctuary District A. We're holding six hostages. We don't want to hurt them. All we want is 
BASHIR: What happened? 
SISKO: Someone cut off our access to the Interface. 
BC: I knew it! I knew this was a waste of time. They don't care. No one cares about us. 
VIN: Why should they? You're all a bunch of losers. 
BC: What did you say? 
BERNARDO: He didn't say anything. 
VIN: You heard me. I called you a loser because that's what you are. And this time, you're going to lose big. 
SISKO: That's enough! 
VIN: Check your e-mail, buddy. You're a loser, too. 
BASHIR: If you want to get out of here, you'd better hope you're wrong. 
BERNARDO: Quiet down, Vin. You'll only make things worse. 
VIN: I just want these guys to know what they're in for. I bet the National Guard's already has this place surrounded. Sooner or later they'll come rolling right in here, and you people aren't even going to slow them down. 
BC: I really think we should kill this guy. 
(A woman's voice comes from the terminal.) 
PRESTON [on monitor]: Mister Webb, I'm Detective Preston from the SFPD. It's urgent that I speak with you. 
WEBB: Did you shut off our access to the Interface? 
PRESTON [on monitor]: I'm afraid it's department policy in these types of situations, but it does give us a chance to talk one-on-one 
WEBB: All right, let's talk. 
PRESTON [on monitor]: First, I want to see the hostages. 
WEBB: What for? 
PRESTON [on monitor]: I need to make sure they're okay. You said you weren't going to hurt them. I need to know I can count on that. 
BC: Get up. Let's go. They want to see a hostage, let's show them a hostage. 
(It's Lee.) 
BC: Take a good look, lady. I've got five more just like her. And if we don't get what we want, they're going to get hurt. 
SISKO: I think you've made your point. 
BC: Have I, Detective? 
PRESTON [on monitor]: I'd say so. 
BC: Good. 
PRESTON [on monitor]: Look, if you don't mind, I'd like to speak with Mister Webb again. 
BC: Why would I mind? 
WEBB: All right, Detective, I'm here. 
PRESTON [on monitor]: Your friend has quite a temper. 
WEBB: That's because he's angry. We all are. 
(meanwhile, walking away) 
SISKO: BC, let me ask you something. 
BC: Go ahead. 
SISKO: Why do I get the feeling that you're not going to be happy until you've hurt one of those hostages? 
BC: I have to admit, the thought has crossed my mind. It might alleviate some of the stress I'm feeling. 
SISKO: I think you'd better find a way to deal with that stress. It's sure to be a lot healthier for you in the long run. 
BC: No kidding. Let me ask you something. You think it looks better like this or like this? 
(BC turns down the brim of his hat.) 
SISKO: It's your head. and your decision. 
WEBB: Hey, Gabe .Detective Preston wants to meet with me. 
SISKO: When? 
WEBB: Now, by the main gate. 
SISKO: May I join you? 
WEBB: I was hoping you'd say that. 
SISKO: Keep an eye on the hostages 
BASHIR: Got it. Good luck. 
[Sanctuary District Main Gate]
PRESTON: It's been a long night for all of us. You guys must be exhausted. 
WEBB: We're okay. We could use some breakfast come morning. 
PRESTON: Breakfast for ten thousand? That's a lot of take-out. But in the interest of friendship, I'll do what I can. Now, how about returning the favour and letting me have one of the hostages? 
WEBB: No hostage, no food. Is that what you're saying? 
PRESTON: Not at all. You'll get the food either way. Giving up one of the hostages would show good faith. Besides, you'd still have five left. 
SISKO: Those hostages aren't going anywhere until we get what we want. 
PRESTON: Which is what? 
SISKO: We want the Sanctuaries closed and the Federal Employment Act reinstated. 
PRESTON: That's asking a lot. 
SISKO: I don't think so. What we want is to get out from behind these walls, to stop having to depend on handouts. 
WEBB: That's right. All we're asking for is a chance to get back on our feet again. We don't deserve to be locked up in here. 
PRESTON: Obviously I can't make any promises, but I will see to it the Governor hears your demands. 
SISKO: You do that. 
[Processing Centre]
BASHIR: Are you all right? 
VIN: Hey, leave her alone. 
BASHIR: I'm a doctor. 
BERNARDO: Sure you are. 
LEE: You were here the other day, weren't you? 
BASHIR: That's right. Are you hypoglycemic? 
LEE: You really are a doctor. 
BASHIR: Why didn't you tell someone? 
LEE: I was afraid to. 
BASHIR: I'll see about getting you some medicine. In the meantime I'll try and find you a chocolate bar or something. 
(Sisko has come back.) 
MAN: I'm going to get some sleep. 
LEE: Wasn't he here with you? 
BASHIR: Bell? We came in together. 
LEE: He gave me a false name, didn't he? 
BASHIR: Well, yes. He got himself into a little trouble a while back and he didn't want you to put his real name on the computer. 
LEE: When I first started working here, I processed a woman who had a warrant out on her for abandoning her kid. She couldn't take care of him, so she left him with a family that she worked for over in the Marina. I felt so sorry for her I didn't log her in. I just let her disappear into the Sanctuary. 
BASHIR: Well, that was very kind of you. 
LEE: Almost got me fired when my supervisor found out. 
BASHIR: What happened to this woman? 
LEE: I don't know, but I think about her all the time. Ever since then I've just done my job, you know? Tried not to let it get to me. 
BASHIR: It's not your fault that things are the way they are. 
LEE: Everybody tells themselves that, and nothing ever changes. 
[Processing Centre]
(BC is asleep and Sisko is yawning. Vin tries to get to the main door.) 
SISKO: Hold it! 
(BC wakes up and pumps his shotgun.) 
SISKO: Don't. Don't do it, BC. 
BC: Give me one reason why not. 
SISKO: All right. 
(Sisko pumps a round into his shotgun) 
BC: You really going to shoot me, Bell? I don't think so. 
SISKO: Think again. 
BC: I thought we were on the same side here. 
SISKO: We are, but you get on my nerves and I don't like your hat. Now put the gun down. 
VIN: Yeah, then you and I can see how tough you really are. 
SISKO: Shut up! Now put it down. 
(Webb walks up to BC.) 
WEBB: You heard the man. 
BC: You gimmies. No sense of fun. 
SISKO: Come here. 
VIN: Hey! 
[Processing Centre - Lee's cubicle]
SISKO: Now you listen to me closely because I'm not going to say this again. The next time you try something stupid I will make you regret it. 
VIN: You trying to scare me? 
SISKO: I'm trying to save your life, and the lives of every hostage in that room. And mister, you are not making it easy. 
VIN: If you're so concerned about our welfare, why don't you let us go? 
SISKO: You don't know what any of this is about, do you? You work here, you see these people every day, how they live, and you just don't get it. 
VIN: What do you want me to say? That I feel for them? That they got a bad break? What good would it do? 
SISKO: It'd be a start. You get back in that room, and you shut up. 
[San Francisco - late 1960's]
(Flower power, VW camper van and Hendrix. The Speakeasy is now a disco, man.) 
KIRA: Kira to Sisko. Kira to Dax. Kira to Bashir. 
O'BRIEN: I'm not picking up any residual electrostatic charge. 
KIRA: What? 
O'BRIEN: I said I'm not picking up any residual electrostatic charge. 
KIRA: What? 
O'BRIEN: They're not here! 
(The music stops, a girl and man get out of the VW. The girl gives Kira a flower.) 
KIRA: Thank you 
(She gives one to O'Brien and they all make the V peace sign.);
O'BRIEN: Uh-oh. 
(Kira and O'Brien are beamed out) 
HIPPIE: Wow. 
[Processing Centre]
(Breakfast has arrived, along with junior.) 
WEBB: Danny. 
DANNY: Dad. 
BASHIR: He was outside looking for you. 
WEBB: Your mother and Jeannie, are they okay? 
DANNY: They're fine. They're with the Petersons. 
WEBB: So what are you doing here? 
DANNY: I wanted to be with you. 
WEBB: All right. All right, you can stay for a while but when I tell you to go, I don't want any arguments. 
(Bashir gives Lee an injection.) 
BASHIR: Now that didn't hurt a bit, did it. I managed to find some glucajen in what was left of the clinic. You should be feeling better soon. 
LEE: Thank you. 
BASHIR: Is that your family? 
BERNARDO: Yeah. 
VIN: Let him see it. (Bernardo hands over the photo.) Nice looking bunch, huh? 
BASHIR: Absolutely. 
BERNARDO: Right now those two kids are sitting at home wondering if they'll ever see their dad again. 
BASHIR: Look, I realise this won't make what you're going through any easier, but something good will come from all this. 
BERNARDO: You think they're just going to close down the Sanctuary and let you walk out of here? 
BASHIR: No, but I do know that someday there won't be a need for places like this. 
LEE: I hope you're right. Even though it'll mean I'll be out of a job, I hope you're right. 
BERNARDO: I just want to get home, you know? 
BASHIR: I know. So do I. 
[Sanctuary District Main Gate]
PRESTON: The Governor assures me that if you let the hostages go, he'll reduce the charges against you to incitement to riot. 
WEBB: That's it? What about closing the Sanctuary, what about jobs? 
PRESTON: The Governor intends to form a committee to look into the problems facing the District residents. 
SISKO: So what you're telling us is that nothing is going to change. 
PRESTON: I wouldn't say that. But change takes time. 
SISKO: You've run out of time. 
PRESTON: Gentlemen, if I were you I would seriously consider taking this offer. 
SISKO: Or else what? 
PRESTON: The Governor is not going to let this situation continue forever. 
WEBB: You tell him if he wants to see those hostages again, he's going to have to do better. 
[Sanctuary District barricade]
SISKO: Tough talk. 
WEBB: I was bluffing. 
SISKO: I couldn't tell. 
WEBB: I hope she couldn't either. 
[Sanctuary District Street]
(A manhole cover lifts, and Dax climbs out. She is followed by a dim.) 
[Processing Centre]
SISKO: Try opening that menu. 
BASHIR: It just brings me back to the same screen. There doesn't seem to be any way of getting past the lockout and logging onto the Net. 
SISKO: There has to be. 
BASHIR: How can you be certain? 
SISKO: Because according to history, the residents were able to get onto the Net and tell their side of the story. Millions of people watched. 
BASHIR: Well no one here's been able to get past the lockout. 
SISKO: Maybe it was Bell. And if he did it, we have to also. 
BC: Listen up, everybody. A couple of dims just brought us a little present. 
(Dax is brought in, minus comm. badge) 
BC: I don't know about you fellas, but I'm in love. 
BASHIR: Jadzia. 
BC: You know her? 
DAX: Julian. 
BC: Can you believe it? It's the story of my life. All the good ones are taken. 
BASHIR: You remember my friend Gabe? 
SISKO: Gabriel Bell. It's good to see you again. 
DAX: Good to see you. 
BC: Allow me to introduce myself. Biddle Coleridge. 
VIN: Biddle? 
BC: Hey. 
VIN: I didn't say a word. 
DAX: I've been looking all over for you. 
WEBB: Excuse me. You obviously don't live here, so how did you get in? 
DAX: I managed to recode my ID card so that I could get past the Sanitation Department checkpoint. 
BC: You crawled in through the sewers? You must really like these guys. 
BASHIR: You should sit down. You must be exhausted. 
BC: It's too bad. I really think me and her could've had something special. 
[Processing Centre - Lee's cubicle]
DAX: So what you're saying is that even if I could get you out, you wouldn't leave. 
SISKO: Those hostages have to be protected whatever the cost. 
BASHIR: You said that one of the men who brought you here took your comm. badge. 
DAX: That's right. And it's set to emit a subspace distress signal. 
SISKO: Julian, I want you to help Dax find the men who took her comm. badge and then I want you both to get away from this place. 
DAX: But if the Defiant locks on to my distress signal and we're not together. 
SISKO: As soon as the hostages are in police custody, I'll try to make it back to the beam-in site. If for some reason I can't make it, you'll have to leave without me. 
BASHIR: Sir, obviously Jadzia has got to leave. If something were to happen to her, it wouldn't take a doctor long to figure out she wasn't human. But you're still going to need help to keep those hostages alive, and if it's all the same to you, I'll stay. 
SISKO: All right. See if you can get her comm. badge back. I'll keep trying to log onto the Net. 
BASHIR: The police cut off our access. 
DAX: That's one problem I might be able to help you with. 
[Sanctuary District Street]
BASHIR: Do you really think you can convince your friend to put us on the Net? 
DAX: It'll take some persuading but I think he'll do what's right. This is it. The men who took my comm. badge brought me here before they took me to the Processing Centre. 
[Sanctuary District Building]
BASHIR: Hello? Hello? 
GRADY [OC]: There's nobody here. 
BASHIR: We just want to talk. 
GRADY: Woosh! I'm invisible. 
DAX: If you say so. 
GRADY: You can see me? 
BASHIR: Just barely. 
GRADY: That's okay. As long as they can't see me. 
DAX: Who? 
GRADY: The aliens. They'll suck your brains out right through your ears. 
DAX: I know. You see, I'm an alien. 
GRADY: I thought so, but you're a good alien. 
DAX: Right. I'm here to protect the Earth from its enemies. But I need that piece of jewellry you're holding to do it. 
GRADY: I understand. Here, you take it. Good luck. 
DAX: Thank you. Shh. Don't tell anyone. 
GRADY: I won't. I won't. 
[Sanctuary District Street]
DAX: I came in there. Take care of yourself. 
BASHIR: We'll see you at the beam-in site. 
[Chris's office]
CHRIS: Let me see if I understand what you're asking me to do. You want me to override a government block, violate my Interface operating license, and turn over my channels to a bunch of criminals. 
DAX: They're not criminals. 
CHRIS: I know that, but they're acting like criminals. They have guns, they have taken hostages. 
DAX: So why do you think they're doing it? Don't you want to know? Don't you think that the public deserves to know? 
CHRIS: You are asking me to break the law. 
DAX: I am asking you to give those people a voice. Chris, sooner or later, the government is going to retake the Sanctuary District. And when they do, a lot of people are going to die. And unless the public learns why the Sanctuary residents did what they did, all those deaths will be for nothing. 
CHRIS: You know I'll lose my license. But I'll get great ratings. 
[Processing Centre]
(A queue of gimmies are waiting to tell their stories to the world.) 
HENRY: My name is Henry Garcia. I've been living here two years now. I came to San Francisco to work in a brewery but they laid a bunch of us off because they got some new equipment. So I ended up here. I've never been in trouble with the law or anything. I don't want to hurt anybody. I just want a chance to work and live like regular people. 
JULIE: My name is Julie Hess 
[Outside the Sanctuary District]
(Detective Preston is on the phone) 
PRESTON: Governor, I understand your concern, but I think the use of force would be premature at this time. I am aware that there have been disturbances in other Sanctuary Districts, but we have to think about the hostages. I know I've heard the rumours too, but that's all they are, rumours. If you just give me another chance to talk with Webb and Bell, I. Yes, sir. Of course. We'll do our best. 
(She puts down the phone.) 
PRESTON: The Governor's made up his mind. We move in at oh five hundred. 
[Transporter room]
ODO: No luck? 
KIRA: Afraid not. 
O'BRIEN: Well, we know one thing. They arrived before the year twenty forty eight. 
ODO: How can you be sure? 
O'BRIEN: Because we were just there. And that wasn't the mid-twenty first century I read about in school. It's been changed. I mean, Earth history has been through its rough patches, but never that rough. 
KIRA: If we limit our search to dates before twenty forty eight, how many possibilities does that leave us with? 
O'BRIEN: According to my calculations, three. But we've only have enough chroniton particles for one more try. 
KIRA: Well, pick one, Chief. Let's hope you get lucky. 
O'BRIEN: That's my best guess. 
KIRA: That's good enough for me. Energise. 
[San Francisco street]
KIRA: Kira to Sisko. Kira to 
O'BRIEN: I'm picking up a comm. badge distress signal. It's Dax. 
KIRA: Kira to Dax. 
[Chris's office]
KIRA [OC]: Dax, do you hear me? 
DAX: Kira. 
KIRA [OC]: Dax, am I glad to hear your voice. 
DAX: Where are you? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: We're at the corner of Polk and California. 
DAX: I'll meet you there. 
KIRA [OC]: Are Sisko and Bashir with you? 
DAX: No. I'll explain everything when I see you. 
KIRA [OC]: The transporter's 
[San Francisco Street]
KIRA: Set to automatically retrieve us in about a minute. You'd better deactivate your comm. badge. 
DAX [OC]: Acknowledged. 
O'BRIEN: We can reactivate them tomorrow in time for the next beam out. 
KIRA: Should be interesting. 
[Processing Centre]
VIN: Best ball club I ever saw? The ninety nine Yankees, no doubt about it. 
BERNARDO: Get out of here. The fifteen Kings could've taken them any day. 
VIN: Come on. 
BERNARDO: Am I right? 
BASHIR: I wouldn't know. I prefer tennis. 
VIN: Tennis? 
LEE: Soccer. 
VIN: It's up to you, Bell. 
SISKO: I don't think there's any question. The Kings. Fifteen was Buck Bokai's rookie year. 
VIN: That's all they had going for them. 
BC: I've been up on the roof. It looks like another National Guard unit arrived. There's something's going on out there. 
SISKO: Everybody on your feet. 
WEBB: What are you doing? 
SISKO: They'll be safer in there. Let's go. I want you in there with them. Make sure they keep their heads down. 
BASHIR: I'll see if I can find something to block the door. 
WEBB: Danny. Danny, wake up. Come on, it's time for you to go. 
DANNY: I want to be here with you. 
WEBB: I'll meet up with you later. Tell your mom I love her and give your sister a kiss for me. Go on, now. Go on. 
BC: Hey, kid. 
(Gives him his hat) 
BC: Yeah, I thought so. Looks good on you. Now get lost. 
(Danny leaves.) 
BC: What the hell. It's probably raining in Tasmania, anyway.;
WEBB: I'm going to talk to Preston and find out what's going on. 
(There's the thrum of helicopter rotors overhead, then a boom.) 
WEBB: Oh my god. 
(BOOM! as the doors are blown in and riot police enter, firing at everyone. BC goes down, then Webb) 
VIN: Stop shooting, damn it! We're okay! 
(There's a red dot on Vin's chest, so Sisko steps forward.) 
SISKO: Hold it! No! 
(Sisko gets shot.) 
POLICE: Don't move. Clear. Damage control. Freeze! 
VIN: I'm a hostage, you idiot! 
POLICE: Blue leader, this is team one. The Processing Centre is secure. 
VIN: What's wrong with you people? You could've gotten us all killed. 
POLICE: There were rumours you were dead. 
VIN: Do I look dead to you? 
POLICE: Our orders were to pacify the building 
VIN: Yeah? Well you certainly did a good job. 
(Bashir goes to tend to Sisko) 
BASHIR: I'm a doctor. 
VIN: Leave him alone. 
POLICE: I copy. All right, listen up. There's trouble on Second Street. 
VIN: You go pacify Second Street. Officer Calvera and I can handle things in here. Give me that. 
(A gun for Bernardo.) 
POLICE: All right, men. Let's move. 
VIN: How is he? 
BASHIR: Lucky. He'll live. 
SISKO: The next time I tell you to stay down, you 
VIN: Gotcha. 
SISKO: Yeah. What about Webb? 
[Sanctuary District - outside the Processing Centre]
(Full daylight reveals the full carnage) 
MEDIC: Keep the pressure on. 
MEDIC 2: Over here, quick. 
BOY: Mommy? Mommy? 
VIN: How could we have let this happen? 
BASHIR: The question is, how do we stop it from happening again. 
BERNARDO: So what do we do with them? 
VIN: I don't know. 
SISKO: You could let us go. 
VIN: All right. 
BERNARDO: Vin! 
VIN: They saved our lives back there. 
BERNARDO: How can we explain what happened to them? 
VIN: Give me your ID cards. 
SISKO: It's in my pocket. 
VIN: We'll switch these with two of the casualties. As far as anybody knows, you both died here. Is that okay with you, Bell? 
SISKO: Thanks. 
VIN: My pleasure. 
BERNARDO: Come on, let's get you out of here. 
VIN: Anything else we can do for you? 
SISKO: There is one more thing. 
VIN: Name it. 
SISKO: Tell people the truth about what happened here. 
VIN: I would've done that anyway. 
First officer's log, supplemental. Upon returning to the present with our missing crewmembers, we were relieved to discover that the timeline had been restored. 
[Sisko's cabin]
SISKO: Come in. 
BASHIR: How do you feel? 
SISKO: Better. 
BASHIR: I thought you might like to see this. I found it in the historical database. 
(On the PADD, Sisko is captioned as Gabriel Bell.) 
SISKO: I'm not looking forward to explaining this to Starfleet Command. 
BASHIR: Well, at least it's a good picture. You know, Commander, having seen a little of the twenty first century there is one thing I don't understand. How could they have let things get so bad? 
SISKO: That's a good question. I wish I had an answer. 

