Episode Number: 560
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - It's Only A Paper Moon
It's Only A Paper Moon
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 28 Dec, 1998
[Corridor]
ROM: What if I say something dumb? Something that makes him uncomfortable? 
EZRI: Like what? 
ROM: Like how's your new leg? 
EZRI: I think he's probably expecting a few questions. 
ROM: I just don't want to say the wrong thing. 
LEETA: You'll be fine. But maybe I shouldn't be there when he arrives. 
EZRI: Why? 
LEETA: Well, when he was in the hospital, he didn't answer any of my letters. That's okay. I'm only his stepmother. But he's going through something so personal maybe he only wants his real family around. 
ROM: You are real family. 
[Cargo bay]
EZRI: That's right. And you should both just relax. Yes, Nog has lost a leg and that's a traumatic experience, but nothing you do or say or do is going to be worse than what he's already gone through. Just be happy to see him and tell him you love him. For today, that'll be enough. 
KIRA: They've docked. 
(A load of Starfleet come through to be met by friends and family, then - ) 
SISKO: Colonel, are you sure this is the right transport? 
KIRA: I checked the passenger list this morning. He definitely boarded at 
LEETA: Here he comes. Nog! 
(Nog is using a walking stick, and limping. He gets a round of applause.) 
KIRA: Welcome back, Nog. 
EZRI: Welcome back. 
ROM: Hello. 
LEETA: Welcome home, Nog.;
NOG: Thank you. It's good to be back. My orders, Captain. 
SISKO: (reads the PADD) Medical leave? How could that be? 
O'BRIEN: Sounds like an excuse to loaf around while the rest of us work. 
BASHIR: Hard work and plenty of it, that's what I prescribe. 
ODO: Captain, maybe he forged those orders. 
SISKO: I'm afraid they're genuine. Ensign Nog has no duties until further notice. Except to attend a welcome home party in the wardroom. 
NOG: If it's all the same to you, sir, I'm rather tired. I'd rather just go to my quarters. Is that all right? 
EZRI: Absolutely. We can celebrate once you've settled in. 
NOG: Great. 
JAKE: I can carry your bag. 
NOG: I've got it. Well, if you'll all excuse me. 
(Nog leaves. Ezri stops Leeta from following.) 
[Jake + Nog's quarters]
(Nog is in civilian clothes.) 
EZRI: And Julian and Miles have become even more obsessed with their Alamo programme, if you can believe it. I half expect Miles to start wearing a coonskin cap to work. You see, Davy Crockett wore this cap made of a raccoon skin and 
NOG: I know the programme. 
EZRI: Oh. Well, I think we've covered just about everything you missed while you were away. Is there anything you want to talk about? 
NOG: Not particularly. Here it comes. 
EZRI: What? 
NOG: The cane problem. You're about to ask me why I need to walk with the cane since Doctor Benbasset told you my biosynthetic leg works perfectly. He also told you the problem's all in my head. That I'm crazy. 
EZRI: He didn't say that. 
NOG: It's what he thinks. 
EZRI: Forget what he thinks. What do you think? Why do you need the cane? 
NOG: My leg hurts. And if I put my full weight on it, it hurts more. So I have to limp. And that means I need to walk with a cane. 
EZRI: Sounds reasonable to me. 
NOG: Good. Look, can I be perfectly honest with you? I've spent the last three weeks talking about my feelings with the counsellors on Starbase two three five and to tell you the truth, I'm a little sick of it. I just want to be left alone for a while. 
EZRI: I understand. I think we've done enough for today. I'll see you tomorrow. 
(Ezri leaves.) 
NOG: Computer what time is it? 
COMPUTER: The time is nine thirty two hours. 
[Nog's bedroom]
(Nog puts on Vic's recording of 'I'll Be Seeing You' and lies on the bed.) 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Jake says he's sleeping over eighteen hours a day and Julian says he's missed his last two physical therapy appointments. 
EZRI: And his counselling sessions have been going nowhere. In his words, he's sick of talking about his feelings. I can't say I blame him. He's been under constant psychiatric care for almost two months now. 
SISKO: What should do we do? 
EZRI: I'm not sure. For now, I think our best bet is to simply watch and wait. 
SISKO: Not my first choice. 
EZRI: I know. But sometimes a patient can help guide his own treatment. Let's see what Nog does next. 
[Jake's bedroom]
(Jake can't sleep for the music coming from Nog's room. It's that song - again. And again.) 
[Nog's bedroom]
(Jake enters.) 
JAKE: Nog, I am trying to be understanding and I want to be your friend, but enough is enough. (turns the music off) You've been playing that same stupid song for three days. I can't take it anymore. Aren't you going to say anything? You've barely said three words to me since you came home. 
NOG: Maybe I don't have anything to say. 
JAKE: I'm trying to help you here, Nog, but you're not making it easy. 
NOG: You want to help me? Fine. Leave me alone. 
JAKE: All right. Okay. But if you want to hear that song again, go rent a holosuite. 
(Jake leaves. Nog gets up - he's still fully clothed - and takes the rod with him.) 
[Turbolift]
(Nog remembers 
AR558
and the moment when the Jem'Hadar shot him.) 
[Promenade]
(Nog breaks into Quark's.) 
[Quark's]
COMPUTER: Programme is running. You may enter when ready. 
[Holosuite - Las Vegas lounge]
VIC: Hi there, pallie. It's good to see you. Vic Fontaine. 
NOG: I know. I'm Nog. 
VIC: You're Rom's kid, right? 
NOG: Right. 
VIC: He's really proud of you. He's always in here bragging about his son, the soldier boy. 
NOG: Yeah. 
VIC: What can I do for you? 
NOG: I want to hear 'I'll Be Seeing You'. 
VIC: Sure thing, kiddo. Any other requests? 
NOG: No. Just 'I'll Be Seeing You.' 
VIC: Sounds like a special tune. 
NOG: It is. It helped me once when I was unhappy. 
VIC: What more can you ask from a song? I'll be seeing you, from the top. 
(While Vic sings, Nog remembers AR558.) 
[Bunker Infirmary]
NOG: Doctor? 
BASHIR: Yes? 
NOG: What is that? 
BASHIR: It's a song that I had Vic Fontaine record for me. 
NOG: Vic? 
BASHIR: Yes, he's a character in a holosuite programme of mine. I thought it might take our minds off our troubles. Is it bothering you? 
NOG: No. It's kind of nice. 
[Holosuite - Las Vegas lounge]
(The song segues into a more upbeat version.) 
VIC: Thank you. Take five, fellas. Okay, kid, I know fifteen different arrangements of that tune and you've heard 'em all. Now, which one's your favourite? 
NOG: The first. 
VIC: Somehow, I knew you were going to say that. So let me guess. Julian played it for you, right? 
NOG: Right. 
VIC: If I had him as a publicist, I'd be bigger than Elvis. 
NOG: Who? 
VIC: Never mind. So, how's the new leg? 
NOG: You know about that? 
VIC: People talk. 
NOG: If you really want to know, it hurts. 
VIC: Can they give you something for that? 
NOG: No. They say it's all in my head. According to my tricorder, the pain receptors in your leg aren't being stimulated, Nog. You must be imagining it. I don't care what they say. It hurts all the time. 
VIC: I believe you. 
NOG: You're the only one. 
VIC: So what else can I do for you? Sing it again? 
NOG: No. 
VIC: Good. To tell you the truth, I was starting to get a little sick of it myself. How about something else? 
NOG: No. I just want to go to bed. 
VIC: Okay, kid. Catch you later, huh? 
NOG: Yeah. 
VIC: Something wrong? 
NOG: I don't want to go back to my quarters. Actually, I don't want to go back to my life. Vic, where do you live? In the programme, I mean. Do you have a house or? 
VIC: I have a suite here in the hotel. 
NOG: Do you have an extra room? 
VIC: Sure. You want to stay with me tonight? 
NOG: Maybe more than just tonight. Officially, I'm on medical leave, and according to regulations I can choose my rehabilitation facility. 
VIC: You want to choose a holosuite programme for your rehab? 
NOG: Why not? 
VIC: Okay, kid. If that's the way you want it, from now on you're staying with me. 
NOG: Great. 
VIC: Crazy. 
[Wardroom]
ROM: My son is insane. 
EZRI: Rom. 
ROM: He's a one-legged crazy man! 
EZRI: He is not crazy. 
SISKO: But he is living in a holosuite. 
EZRI: At first, it struck me as a little peculiar. But after I thought it over, I began to think that this might be a good sign after all. 
QUARK: How can hiding in one of Julian's adolescent programmes be a good sign? 
BASHIR: Hey. 
JAKE: It could be worse. He could be hiding in the Alamo programme. 
LEETA: Or that ridiculous secret agent programme. 
BASHIR: Hey. 
ROM: Or that stupid Viking programme. 
BASHIR: Hey! 
SISKO: All right. Are you sure this is in Nog's best interest? 
EZRI: No, I'm not sure. But I think Nog might be subconsciously trying to seek out his own form of therapy. 
JAKE: I'm sorry, but moving into a holosuite isn't my idea of therapy. 
EZRI: Okay, it sounds a little odd. 
QUARK: It sounds ridiculous. 
BASHIR: Not really. I'm inclined to agree with Ezri on this one. The mind has a strong natural instinct for survival. Now, for whatever reason, Nog's mind has chosen to take shelter in the world of Vic Fontaine. 
EZRI: I think we should wait and see how this plays out. 
SISKO: Then someone should talk to Vic, make him aware of Nog's emotional and physical condition. 
EZRI: I'll do it. 
QUARK: And who's going to pay for all this holosuite time? I guess I am. 
SISKO: And it's very generous of you. Keep me informed. 
[Holosuite - Las Vegas lounge]
(Vic is in everyday clothes.) 
VIC: I get it. He's got some healing to do. I could spot that the moment he walked in here. 
EZRI: Great. Do you have any questions? 
VIC: You sure he doesn't need the cane, because he's pretty sure he does. 
EZRI: I'm positive. It's a psychological need, not a physical one. 
VIC: Well, then I have got some ideas on how to wean him off the stick. 
EZRI: Okay, but don't push it. 
VIC: Do I seem pushy to you? 
EZRI: No. Well, you know how to reach me if you have any problems. 
VIC: I got your number. 
[Holosuite - Vic's hotel room]
(Nog is watching a movie on TV. Shane. Alan Ladd is facing down Jack Palance.) 
LADD: So you're Jack Wilson. 
PALANCE: What's that mean to you, Shane. VIC: Hey, kid. 
LADD: I've heard about you. 
NOG: Hey, Vic. Have you seen this movie? 
VIC: Oh, yeah. 
PALANCE: What have you heard, Shane? 
LADD: I've heard that you're a low down Yankee liar. 
(The shootout.) 
DEWILDE: Shane, look out! 
(Vic goes over his ledgers) 
VIC: From these books I can't tell if I'm rich as Rockefeller or as poor as a church mouse. 
NOG: It's not real money, Vic. Don't worry about it. 
VIC: Hey, it's real to me, kid. 
NOG: I can have the computer put some money in your account. 
VIC: No, thanks. I'll figure it out. 
LADD: I got to be going on. 
DEWILDE: Why, Shane? 
NOG: Didn't he just get shot a minute ago? 
VIC: Yeah. He took one in the arm. 
NOG: He's not bleeding. He's not even in pain. 
VIC: Noggles, take it easy. It's only a movie. 
(Shane is riding off) 
DEWILDE: Shane! Come back! 
NOG: I like The Searchers better. 
VIC: Yeah, who doesn't? Oh, son of a gun. I got to get ready for the show. 
NOG: Show? I thought we were hanging in. 
VIC: Hanging out. And we are, except I have a gig to do. 
NOG: Cancel it. 
VIC: I can't do that. 
NOG: Why not? 
VIC: It would be unprofessional. Besides, performing is my life. It's what I do. I got to get out there and swing otherwise I'm just another clyde in a tux. You coming to the show? 
NOG: Sure. 
VIC: Good. Then may I suggest you carry something with a little more style. 
(A black cane with a lion's head) 
VIC: Now this is a cane. It's a replica of the one Errol Flynn used to have, only his was a little taller. 
NOG: It's beautiful. It reminds me of the Grand Nagus's staff. 
VIC: And it has a little secret. Push that button at the back of the head. 
(A flame comes of the lion's mouth.) 
NOG: Great. But what's it for? 
VIC: You never know when a lady's going to need a light. Now be careful with that stick, it's fragile. It might not hold your whole weight. 
NOG: Actually, I don't need to put my whole weight on it. 
VIC: Good. Now let's get dressed. 
NOG: Tuxedoes? 
VIC: You're catching on. 
[Holosuite - Las Vegas lounge]
(Vic's song is 'I've Got the World on a String'. Jake enters with a date and goes to Nog's table.) 
JAKE: Hi there. Nog, let me introduce you to 
MAN: Down in the front! 
JAKE: Sorry. Nog, this is Kesha. Kesha, Nog. 
KESHA: Nice to meet you. 
NOG: Welcome to Las Vegas. 
KESHA: Thanks. 
(The song finishes.) 
VIC: Thank you, thank you. You're too kind. I guess that's the response you get when you pack the house with relatives. 
(Vic starts singing 'Just in Time') 
JAKE: So, what have you been doing? 
NOG: Hanging out. 
KESHA: Out of what? 
NOG: It's an expression. 
JAKE: There's a lot of old Earth slang in this programme. Right, Daddy-o? 
NOG: Right. 
JAKE: Why don't I get us some drinks? Kesha, what'll you have? 
KESHA: A makara fizz. 
NOG: They don't serve that here. 
KESHA: Oh. Well, what are you having? 
NOG: Martini. Two olives. 
KESHA: I'll have the same. 
JAKE: Okay. I'll be right back. 
KESHA: Jake says you're going to be the first Ferengi captain in Starfleet. 
NOG: We'll see. 
KESHA: He also says you're quite a hero. 
NOG: I'm not a hero. 
KESHA: Don't be so modest. Jake's not the only one. Everyone on the station 
NOG: I said, I'm not a hero. 
KESHA: Okay. 
NOG: Which one? 
KESHA: What? 
NOG: That's what you're wondering, right? Which leg is it? 
KESHA: No, I wasn't wondering about that 
NOG: About what? 
KESHA: About your, you know. 
NOG: My new leg? Can't you say it? 
KESHA: No. Yes. I mean, I'm not trying to say anything 
NOG: Then maybe you should just keep quiet. 
JAKE: Okay, here we go. Three martinis. 
KESHA: I think we should leave, Jake. 
NOG: Sounds like a good idea. 
JAKE: What's going on? 
KESHA: It's all my fault. I didn't mean to stare. 
JAKE: At what? 
NOG: What do you think? 
JAKE: Oh. 
KESHA: I'm really sorry if I made you uncomfortable, Nog. 
NOG: Wonderful. Goodbye. 
JAKE: Hold on. She said she was sorry. 
NOG: I heard her. Now you can go. 
JAKE: Nog, what's wrong with you? 
NOG: I said get out. 
JAKE: Nog. 
NOG: Let me put it another way. 
(Nog overturns the table and punches Jake. Vic comes down to break it up.) 
VIC: Hey, hey, hey. Break it up. You all right? 
JAKE: Yeah, I'm fine. 
VIC: And you, take a hike. 
NOG: What? 
VIC: You heard me. You don't come into my club and start hitting customers. Now get out before I throw you out. 
[Holosuite - Vic's hotel room]
(Nog is watching the Untouchables when Vic comes in.) 
VIC: You're still up? 
NOG: I couldn't sleep. 
VIC: Do you mind? (turns the TV off) What a night. 
NOG: I'm sorry about what happened. 
VIC: Don't apologise to me. I'm not the one you belted. 
NOG: I'll settle things with Jake. 
VIC: And his girl. 
NOG: Absolutely. Can I go back to the club tomorrow night? 
VIC: I can't have you hitting the customers. It's not good for business. 
NOG: I promise it'll never happen again. 
VIC: What got into you, anyway? 
NOG: I don't know. She started calling me a hero and things just of went downhill from there. 
VIC: She called you a hero? And for that you slugged your best friend? Remind me never to give you a compliments. You know, I'm beat. That's never happened to me. 
NOG: What? 
VIC: Being tired. My programme's never run this long. Usually people come in, they ask for a song or two, sometimes a night on the town, but I never have to put in a full day. 
NOG: Maybe you should go to bed. 
VIC: I got work to do. If I don't get these books in order, Uncle Sam's going to come down on me like a ton of bricks. 
NOG: Sounds like my uncle. Is there anything I can do? 
VIC: You know anything about bookkeeping? 
NOG: I'm a Ferengi. It's in our blood. 
VIC: Be my guest. 
NOG: Where's your computer? 
VIC: Right here. (A pencil.) It's nineteen sixty two. What do you want from me? 
NOG: It's all right. I can do it this way. 
VIC: I'm going to hit the sack. 
NOG: Can I ask you a question, Vic? 
VIC: Sure. 
NOG: When you sleep, do you dream? 
VIC: Goodnight, kid. 
NOG: Goodnight, Vic. 
[Holosuite - Las Vegas lounge]
(The slot machines are busy as Vic is chatting with the band at a table. Ezri goes over.) 
VIC: but this time he's switched all the robes in the steam room. So when Dino goes to pick up his robe, he doesn't realise that across the back, Frank has printed in big bold letters. I'll finish the story later. Hi, doll face. 
EZRI: Hi. Where's Nog? 
VIC: Up in the room, still working on the receipts from sixty one. That's kid's a hell of an accountant. He said the government owes me money. Can you believe that? 
EZRI: I need to talk to him. 
VIC: Can it wait? 
EZRI: I'm afraid not. 
VIC: It's about that thing with Jake, right? Is he pressing charges? 
EZRI: No. But I do think that it's time for Nog to leave the holosuite. 
VIC: Wait a minute, wait a minute. You know, he likes it here. He's making progress. Okay, he lost his cool, but I don't think that'll happen again. 
EZRI: Vic, he can't hide in here forever. He has to face reality sometime. 
VIC: The kid's had too much reality lately, if you ask me. He's lost a leg, he's watched good friends die. Like you said, we shouldn't push him. He needs time to heal. 
EZRI: No offence, but you're just a hologram and I am his counsellor. I outrank you and I feel that it's time for him to go. 
VIC: He's on medical leave. And according to Starfleet regulations, he can spend it wherever he chooses. 
EZRI: How do you know that? 
NOG: I told him. And if you try to force me to leave, I'll resign my commission. 
EZRI: Wait a minute. Let's slow down here. No one's talking about forcing anyone to do anything. 
NOG: Good. Because Vic and I have big plans. 
VIC: We do? 
NOG: I've been going over your books, and this place is a latinum mine and you don't even know it. In my opinion, it's time to expand the business. 
EZRI: Nog, this is a holosuite. 
NOG: Of course it's a holosuite. That doesn't mean we can't build a new casino. 
VIC: A new casino? How much money do I have? 
NOG: If you'll excuse us, Counsellor, we have business to conduct. 
(With the title song 'It's Only A Paper Moon' in the background, we move into a series of montages. - Blueprints are drawn up, accounts are worked on, films are watched on TV while eating popcorn, Nog lights a lady's cigarette with his replica cane, the business section of the Las Vegas Register is read, Ezri notices Nog greeting the customers whilst holding and not leaning on his cane.) 
NOG: Go easy on the garnishes. People order a drink, they don't want a fruit bowl in their glass. We'll talk about this later. 
(Moon River instrumental in the background.) 
WAITRESS: Good evening. 
NOG: I'll take care of them. Hey, long time, no see. 
ROM: Hi. 
LEETA: Oh, Nog! 
NOG: Right this way. 
LEETA: So, how are you? 
NOG: Couldn't be better. Business is booming. We're making money hand over fist. I can hardly keep up with all the profits. 
ROM: Those are holographic profits, right? 
NOG: Yeah. So, what's new with you? 
LEETA: Well, Rom got a promotion. 
ROM: Maintenance Engineer, First Class. 
NOG: That's great! Congratulations, Dad! 
ROM: Thanks. 
NOG: We should celebrate. We'll close the lounge, have a private party. 
LEETA: Actually, Chief O'Brien threw him a party last night. 
NOG: Oh. 
LEETA: It was a spur of the moment thing. No invitations or anything. 
NOG: Don't worry about it. I probably couldn't have gotten away. Last night was really busy. Oh. A big player just walked in. Excuse me a minute. I need to go schmooze. 
ROM: Okay. See you later. 
LEETA: Bye. 
(At the bar.) 
VIC: Hey, I hope you're still talking to me. 
EZRI: Of course I am. I got to hand it to you, Vic, you've done a great job with him. He seems like a new man. 
VIC: He just needed a little time, that's all. 
EZRI: Heals all wounds, right? Giving him that cane was a great idea. I haven't seen him limp in days. 
VIC: It gets better. Yesterday we drove out to see the architect who's designing the new casino. I saw him actually run up a flight of stairs. 
EZRI: No kidding. 
VIC: Would I kid a kidder? 
EZRI: So, what's next for you two? 
VIC: We don't break ground on the casino for about a week, so I thought we'd fly up to Tahoe for a couple of days. Sammy's going to be performing at the Cal Neva and I thought I'd introduce the kid to him. 
EZRI: Sammy's a friend of yours? 
VIC: We're tight. 
EZRI: I see. You're going to get Sammy convince him that it's time to leave the holosuite? 
VIC: Well, no. 
EZRI: Forget it. I should know better by now than to ask you to give away your secrets. You probably have the whole thing all mapped out. I mean, what am I thinking? That this new casino is anything more than a ploy? That you'd actually let him live out the rest of his life in a holosuite? 
VIC: No, of course not, I mean. The casino's just a ploy, like you said, you know. 
EZRI: They'll be so glad to have him back. 
VIC: Yeah. He is better, isn't he. 
EZRI: It's like you said. He just needed a break from reality. Now all that's left is to decide when he's ready to go back. But I'll leave that up to you. See you around. 
VIC: See you. 
[Holosuite - Vic's hotel room]
(Nog is looking over the blueprints again when Vic enters.) 
NOG: Great set tonight, Vic. 
VIC: Thanks. Lot of familiar faces in the crowd. Did I see Rom and Leeta out there? 
NOG: They came for a while. What do you think about moving the crap tables over to the south wing and expanding the slot machines out into here? 
VIC: Good idea. (Vic rolls up the blueprints.) I'll think it over. 
NOG: But we're supposed to meet with the architect tomorrow morning. 
VIC: Not anymore. It's time for you to go, kid. 
NOG: Go where? 
VIC: You know where. It's time to end the programme. 
NOG: But we've got work to do. We have a casino to build. 
VIC: No, we don't. This is just a fantasy. It's not real. 
NOG: It's real to me and it's real to you, and don't say it isn't. I know better. 
VIC: You're right, it's very real to me. But I'm a hologram, Nog. I'm not a person. Until you came along, I'd never been on for more than six or seven hours straight. 
NOG: I know. And now you're running all the time. Isn't it great? 
VIC: It's incredible. Since you've been here, I've slept in a bed every night, gone to work every day, had time to read the paper, play cards with the boys. I've had a life. And I have to tell you, it's a precious thing. I had no idea how much it means to just live. Now I'm going to return the favour and give you your life back. 
NOG: But I don't want that life anymore, Vic. I'm perfectly happy here. 
VIC: What here? There is no here. Don't you get it? This is nowhere. It's an illusion and so am I. In fact, the only thing in this entire programme that is not an illusion is you. 
NOG: Okay. You're right. But I'm not ready to go back yet. I need more time. So let's just sleep on this and talk about it tomorrow. 
VIC: Kid, I hate to do this to you, but you're not giving me any choice. Computer 
NOG: No, don't! 
VIC: End programme. 
[Holosuite]
(Nog is working in a control panel.) 
O'BRIEN: Oh. Hi, Nog. 
NOG: Chief. Something wrong? 
O'BRIEN: No, no. I was running a diagnostic in Ops and I noticed a magnetic flux anomaly in the holosuite transilluminator circuits. I didn't realise it was you. 
NOG: Sorry. I'm just having trouble getting the Las Vegas programme to run. 
O'BRIEN: You know, Vic's matrix is a little different than your standard photokinetic hologram. He can turn himself off. And if he doesn't want to appear, he doesn't appear. 
NOG: You mean he has free will? 
O'BRIEN: I'm an engineer, not a philosopher. All I know is that when Vic turns himself off, he's off, and ripping out the guts of the holosuite isn't going to change that. Anything else I can do for you? 
NOG: No. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, we, er, we all miss you in Ops. 
NOG: Yeah. 
(O'Brien leaves) 
VIC: So, now that the Chief's told you I'm smarter than the average bear, will you stop messing around with my holosuite? 
NOG: If you'll turn the programme back on. 
VIC: What is it I'm not making clear to you, Charlie? You got to go. 
NOG: Don't you get it? I can't go out there. 
VIC: Why not? 
NOG: I'm scared, okay? I'm scared. When the war began, I wasn't happy or anything, but I was eager. I wanted to test myself. I wanted to prove I had what it took to be a soldier. And I saw a lot of combat. I saw a lot of people get hurt. I saw a lot of people die, but I didn't think anything was going to happen to me. And then suddenly Doctor Bashir is telling me he has to cut my leg off. I couldn't believe it. I still can't believe it. If I can get shot, if I can lose my leg, anything could happen to me, Vic. I could die tomorrow. I don't know if I'm ready to face that. If I stay here, at least I know what the future is going to be like. 
VIC: You stay here, you're going to die. Not all at once, but little by little. Eventually you'll become as hollow as I am. 
NOG: You don't seem hollow to me. 
VIC: Compared to you, I'm hollow as a snare drum. Look, kid, I don't know what's going to happen to you out there. All I can tell you is that you've got to play the cards life deals you. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose, but at least you're in the game. 
(Nog leaves. Vic picks up his old walking stick.) 
VIC: Crazy. 
[Quark's]
ROM: He seemed happy. 
LEETA: And he's stopped limping. 
QUARK: You're joking. 
LEETA: No. He's a new man. You should go see him. 
QUARK: I don't think I'll need to. 
(Nog comes down the stairs.) 
NOG: Hi. 
ROM: Hi. 
LEETA: Are you okay? 
NOG: No. But I will be. 
[Holosuite]
(Nog enters in uniform.) 
NOG: Computer, run programme Bashir sixty two. 
[Holosuite - Las Vegas lounge]
VIC: Hi, kid. Hey, nice threads. 
NOG: Thanks. 
VIC: You back at work? 
NOG: Limited duty. Just a couple of hours a day. 
VIC: How's it feel? 
NOG: Different. I feel older. 
VIC: Happens to the best of us. 
NOG: I want to thank you for all that you did for me. 
VIC: That's not necessary. You did something for me too. You gave me a chance to see what it's like to have a life. 
NOG: Well you're going to have that chance again. I've made arrangements with my uncle Quark to keep your programme running twenty six hours a day from now on. 
VIC: What? 
NOG: It's my gift to you. 
VIC: Kid, I don't know what to say. 
NOG: Just put it there, pallie, and tell me you'll always save me a seat up front. 
VIC: It's a deal. And you can take that to the bank. 
NOG: Got to go. I'm buying Jake and Kesha dinner tonight. 
VIC: Hey. Try not to overturn the furniture. 
NOG: I'll try. 
(Nog leaves.) 
VIC: Twenty six hours a day. (breaks into song) I've got the world on a string, Sitting on a rainbow. Got the string around my finger. 
(Band and audience have appeared) 
VIC: What a world, what a life. I'm in love. 

