Episode Number: 574
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Dogs Of War
The Dogs Of War
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 24 May, 1999
[Ops]
(Sisko comes up on the turbolift.) 
SISKO: Anything yet? 
O'BRIEN: She'll be here any minute. Running a little late. 
SISKO: This is no way to start a relationship. 
BASHIR: Hi, Ezri. 
EZRI: So, how's Odo? 
BASHIR: Oh, his body shows no signs of the changeling disease. I believe he's cured. 
EZRI: Oh, that's great. 
BASHIR: Yes. In fact I'm going to discharge him this afternoon. 
EZRI: That's, that's really great. 
BASHIR: Yeah. 
O'BRIEN: I don't get it. He's interested, she's interested. What's the problem? 
WORF: He is an overgrown child and she is very confused. 
O'BRIEN: It could still work. She's here. 
(Sisko comes out of his office.) 
SISKO: On screen. 
(Now that's a familiar looking ship.) 
EZRI: I didn't know we were getting another Defiant class ship. 
SISKO: That's what happens when you miss staff meetings. 
O'BRIEN: Looks just like her. 
SISKO: Let's hope she fights like her. 
[Bridge]
(The dedication plaque says USS SAO PAULO. NCC 75633. Launched SD 52889.3. All the production staff are listed, starting with Rick Berman and Michael Piller. It ends with Chief of Staff Gene Roddenberry. Motto - Give me liberty or give me death - Patrick Henry.) 
ROSS: All hands, attention to orders. From Starfleet Headquarters, Office of the Admiralty, to Captain Benjamin L. Sisko. As of this date, you are requested and required to take command of USS Sao Paulo. Signed, Vice Admiral William J. Ross, Stardate 52861.3. Computer, transfer all command codes to Captain Sisko. 
COMPUTER: Command codes transferred. 
SISKO: I relieve you, sir. 
ROSS: I stand relieved. She's all yours, Ben. You've got a fine ship here. 
SISKO: She has some big shoes to fill. 
(Ross and his staff leave.) 
BASHIR: I hate the carpet. I do. 
ROSS: Oh, by the way, there's something else on that PADD that might interest you. 
(Ross leaves, properly.) 
SISKO: Special dispensation from the Chief of Starfleet Operations to change the name from Sao Paulo to Defiant. 
(Everyone checks out their consoles.) 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, the Breen are going to be in for a surprise when they train their energy dampening weapon on this beauty, huh? 
WORF: The shield generators have been completely reconfigured. 
O'BRIEN: Let's go look. 
(Worf and O'Brien leave.) 
BASHIR: You know what, I want to check out my sickbay. 
(Bashir leaves.) 
EZRI: Well, I'll let you two get acquainted. 
(Ezri leaves. Sisko sits in the Captain's chair.) 
SISKO: Hello, ship. 
[Jem'Hadar Bridge]
GARAK: Cardassia. It's as beautiful as I remembered. 
DAMAR: It won't be beautiful to my eyes until the Dominion is gone. 
SESKAL: Orbital traffic control is asking for our security clearance. 
GARAK: I'll handle it. 
KIRA: We're taking a big risk coming here. I hope it's worth it. 
DAMAR: Gul Revok and Legate Goris are ready to bring their troops over to our side. That's over a half a million men. If we can convince Gul Seltan to join us as well, we'll have another hundred thousand. I think that is worth the risk. 
KIRA: And you're sure you want me around? 
DAMAR: Before they join us, they'll want assurances that the Federation will support them. 
GARAK: We've been cleared for standard orbit. 
DAMAR: Do you have transport coordinates? 
SESKAL: Yes. The transporter room is standing by. 
DAMAR: The bridge is yours, Seskal. 
SESKAL: Good luck. 
(Kira, Garak and Damar leave) 
[Cave]
(They beam in onto an upper ledge to the sound of weapons fire and shouting. They see Cardassians being shot by Jem'Hadar.) 
VOICES: There he is! Is that all of them? Yes, sir! Check the other side of the cave. Inform the First that we have killed all the traitors. Yes, sir 
GARAK: How did they know? 
(A Cardassian and a Vorta enter.) 
REVOK: What do we have here? I told them I could lure them here for you. 
DAMAR: Gul Revok. He betrayed us. 
KIRA: Kira to Seskal. Get us out of here. 
[Jem'Hadar Bridge]
(The place is on fire.) 
SESKAL: We're under attack! I can't lower the shields. Lock disruptors and return fire! Transfer the auxiliary power to 
(KaBOOM) 
[Cave]
KIRA: Seskal? Seskal? Seskal? Seskal, do you read me? 
GARAK: I don't think they're up there anymore. 
KIRA: We've got to get out of here. Damar, do you know any place we can go? 
DAMAR: Everyone I know on Cardassia has either been arrested or killed. 
GARAK: I think I know someone who might take us in. That is, if we can get to the capital. 
KIRA: We can't stay here. 
[Cellar]
(An old woman leads them down a flight of steps.) 
MILA: If you don't mind hiding in a basement, I guess I don't mind having you down here. I don't hear from you for years, and then you show up on my doorstep with these people. 
GARAK: I do apologise for the intrusion, but you're the only person on Cardassia I could trust. 
MILA: Well don't blame me if you don't have any friends left. Well now, where's that light switch. 
GARAK: It's smaller than I remember. (lights) I grew up in this house. Did I mention that? 
DAMAR: I thought you said Enabran Tain used to live here. 
MILA: Tain was Garak's father. 
GARAK: He was unable to acknowledge it publicly because he was head of the Obsidian Order. Mila was our housekeeper and most trusted confidante. 
MILA: I was never much of a cook, but I knew how to keep a secret. 
KIRA: We need to contact the other resistance cells and warn them about Revok. Is there any way you can get us a comm. unit? 
GARAK: If it's not too much of an imposition. 
MILA: You shouldn't be involved in this. 
DAMAR: We're attempting to free our people. Do you want to live under the Dominion for the rest of your life? 
MILA: I'm an old woman. I'm long past caring about such things. But I'll get you your comm. unit. 
GARAK: Mila. Thank you. I promise we won't stay long. 
MILA: Well, you might as well make yourselves useful. This place hasn't been cleaned in years. 
(Mila goes up the stairs, Kira throws a cloth at Garak.) 
KIRA: You heard the lady. 
GARAK: The glamour of being a revolutionary. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: Well, everything checks out fine. I'm certifying you fit for duty. 
ODO: Finally. The last time I spoke with Kira, she wanted to know when I'd be rejoining her. 
BASHIR: Odo, there is something you need to know. When I first discovered that you'd become infected with the morphogenic virus, I assumed you'd contracted it from the Founders. 
ODO: Didn't I? 
BASHIR: No. The fact is, it was you who transmitted the disease to them. 
ODO: But how did I get it? 
BASHIR: You were deliberately infected. 
ODO: By whom? 
BASHIR: Section Thirty One. They used you as a carrier, hoping you would pass on the disease to the Founders. I'm sure you were never meant to develop symptoms. 
ODO: I don't care whether they meant to kill me or not. The reality is the Federation set out to destroy my people. 
BASHIR: Section Thirty One aren't part of the Federation&gt; They're a rogue organisation that 
ODO: Don't split hairs with me, Doctor. They used me as an instrument to try to commit genocide. Now we may be at war with the Founders, but that's no excuse. 
BASHIR: I completely agree. 
ODO: And what does Starfleet intend to do about it? 
[Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: The Federation Council considered giving the Founders the cure, then they decided against it. 
ODO: Then they're abetting genocide. 
SISKO: I don't condone what Section Thirty One did, but the Founders started this war, not us. Giving them the cure would strengthen their hand. We can't do that. Not when there are still millions of men and women out there putting their lives on the line every day. 
ODO: Well, I can see there's no point protesting. The decision's been made. 
SISKO: Odo, I wish I didn't have to say this, but I need to know you're not going to take matters into your own hands. 
ODO: You have my word. 
SISKO: That's all I needed to hear. 
ODO: Interesting, isn't it? The Federation claims to abhor Section Thirty One's tactics, but when they need the dirty work done, they look the other way. It's a tidy little arrangement, wouldn't you say? 
[Quark's]
ROM: Go ahead. What have you got to lose? 
LEETA: Our jobs. 
M'PELLA: Let's do it. At this point, I don't care if he fires me. 
ROM: That's the spirit. Remember, ask for ten percent, but settle for fifteen. 
LEETA: Okay. 
(The dabo ladies march over to the bar.) 
M'PELLA: Quark, we have something to say. 
QUARK: Then say it. 
LEETA: We don't think we should have to give you twenty percent of our tips. 
QUARK: Uh hmm. 
LEETA: We think ten percent is more than fair and we're not going back to work until this is settled. 
QUARK: Ten percent? 
BROIK: Quark, there's an incoming transmission from Ferenginar. It's the Grand Nagus! 
QUARK: I'll take it in the back. 
LEETA: Well? 
QUARK: I'll think about it. 
ROM: What'd he say? 
LEETA: He's going to think about it! 
[Quark's storeroom]
(It's a bad line, lots of static and some words dropping out.) 
ZEK: Is that you, (zzz)? 
QUARK: It's me. 
ZEK: I can barely see you. 
QUARK: It's the static. 
ZEK: Sorry about the static. It's raining here. 
QUARK: It's always raining there. 
ZEK: Not this kind of rain. There was an accident at the power plant. The contractor used substandard relays, the greedy bastard. There's a toxic electrostatic cloud hanging over the city. What a frigging mess. 
QUARK: So, to what do I owe the pleasure? 
ZEK: The pressure? That's an ungrateful thing (zzz). I'm not pressuring you. 
QUARK: No, the pleasure. 
ZEK: You're not making any sense. Now shut up and listen. I'm retiring. Your mother and I are moving to Risa to enjoy our old age and do a lot of (zzz), if you know what I mean. 
QUARK: Good for you, I guess. 
ZEK: I'll be coming to Deep Space Nine to name my successor. 
QUARK: Why here? 
ZEK: Why do you think? 
QUARK: To get away from the rain? 
ZEK: No, my boy. I've chosen you to succeed me. You're going to be the new Grand Nagus! Congratulations, (zzz)! 
[Replimat]
(Bashir walks straight into Ezri carrying a tray of food.) 
EZRI: Whoa! 
BASHIR: Oh, sorry. 
EZRI: I'm sorry. 
BASHIR: I'm sorry, really. Hi. 
EZRI: Hi. 
BASHIR: Your lunch? 
EZRI: It's that time. 
(Bashir takes her tray and puts it on a table.) 
BASHIR: This is ridiculous. 
EZRI: I know. 
BASHIR: Listen, I've been meaning to tell you 
EZRI: I have a confession. You go first. 
BASHIR: No, it's all right. 
EZRI: No, really, Julian. You go first. 
(They walk out.) 
BASHIR: Okay. You know how much I value our friendship. 
[Promenade]
BASHIR: Well, lately I've been wondering if maybe we could be 
EZRI: Something more? 
BASHIR: Yes. Exactly. 
EZRI: I've been wondering the same thing. 
BASHIR: Oh, I thought it was just me. 
EZRI: Me too. 
BASHIR: That's why I've been so awkward around you. 
EZRI: I've been trying to tell you, but every time I just couldn't get the words out. 
BASHIR: I know. What is that? I mean, I'm not usually like this. If I find someone attractive, I just, I just tell them. I don't play these ridiculous games. 
EZRI: Neither do I. You know why we might be holding back? The friendship. 
BASHIR: You're right. Why jeopardise our friendship by trying to turn this into something else? 
EZRI: I've made that mistake before. 
BASHIR: Yes, and once you cross the line 
EZRI: You can never go back. 
BASHIR: And if it doesn't work out, you can never be friends again. 
EZRI: I can't bear the thought of losing you as a friend. 
BASHIR: Neither can I. So that's that. 
EZRI: We've figured it out. You know, it takes a certain maturity to not be swept away by the romantic fantasy. 
BASHIR: That's right. Why let physical attraction overcome good sense? 
EZRI: Chemistry isn't everything. 
BASHIR: Absolutely not. We're adults. 
EZRI: I think we should be proud of ourselves. 
BASHIR: So do I. I feel much better. Friends? 
EZRI: Friends. 
[Quark's]
(Quark is lying on the bar.) 
QUARK: Just think. This time next week I'll be living in the Nagal Residence. 
NOG: They say even the waste extraction fixtures are plated with latinum. 
QUARK: That's right. Oh, the first thing I'm going to do is rip them out and replace them with solid latinum fixtures. 
LEETA: That's a little indulgent, don't you think? 
QUARK: Of course, that's the point. A Nagus has to lead by example. My greed has to be a shining light to everyone. A testament to the rewards of avarice. 
M'PELLA: I hope you're not going to be lonely in that great, big Nagal Residence. 
QUARK: I've got a room picked out for you already, my dear. With a view of the Tower of Commerce. And there'll be a place for my dear brother, my brave nephew, my lovely sister-in-law. 
ROM: Liquidator Brunt. 
QUARK: Not him. 
ROM: No, he's here. 
QUARK: What brings you this time, Brunt? 
BRUNT: Ferenginar is rife with rumours. They say the Grand Nagus is coming to DS Nine to name his successor. 
QUARK: For once, the rumours are right. 
BRUNT: I see. 
(Brunt falls to his knees and kisses Quark's hand.) 
BRUNT: A thousand congratulations, my Nagus! 
NOG: He's not Nagus yet. 
BRUNT: It's never too early to suck up to the boss. 
QUARK: I think I'm going to like being Nagus. Don't stop. 
[Cardassia]
WEYOUN [on viewscreen]: And thanks to the heroic efforts of Gul Revok, Damar was lured to Cardassia to meet with five other traitors. But his co-conspirators were killed before they could begin plotting against the people of Cardassia. And Damar himself was killed while trying to penetrate our defence perimeters in a stolen Dominion vessel. 
[Cellar]
KIRA: At least they're not looking for us. 
WEYOUN [on monitor]: I'm also pleased to report that just hours ago, acting on information obtained by our intelligence operatives, our brave troops began a coordinated assault on Damar's terrorist bases. From Atbar Prime to Regulak Four, from Simperia to Quinor Seven, our forces have eliminated a total of eighteen rebel bases. 
DAMAR: All eighteen. 
WEYOUN [on monitor]: With the rebellion crushed, nothing can impede our march to final victory. Truly, this is a great day for the Dominion. 
(Transmission ends.) 
DAMAR: How could they have compromised our entire organisation? We took every precaution, encrypted every transmission, screened every recruit 
KIRA: It doesn't matter how they did it! It's done! Now, we've got to find a way to get off Cardassia. Garak, can we use that thing to contact the Federation? 
GARAK: With a signal that strong the Dominion would trace our location in a matter of seconds. 
KIRA: Well, we've got to do something! We are not spending the rest of the war in this cellar, are we! Are we? 
[Quark's quarters]
(Brunt is giving Quark a pedicure.) 
QUARK: Financial advisor? I don't know. 
BRUNT: I do have lots of connections on Ferenginar. 
QUARK: I don't need your connections. As Nagus, people will be lining up to do business with me. You missed a spot. 
BRUNT: I'm sure there must be something I can do to change your mind. 
QUARK: Possibly. 
BRUNT: Would forty bricks of gold pressed latinum do the trick? 
QUARK: No. But seventy would. 
BRUNT: Fifty. 
QUARK: Sixty. 
BRUNT: Done. If you'll sign this. 
QUARK: What is it? 
BRUNT: A receipt. 
QUARK: For a bribe? 
BRUNT: Surely you're aware of the new regulation making all bribes tax deductible. 
QUARK: Wait, wait, wait, wait. Did you just use the T word? 
BRUNT: You mean tax? 
QUARK: Are you telling me there are T's on Ferenginar? 
BRUNT: You haven't been keeping up with the latest reforms, have you? Zek instituted progressive income tax three months ago. 
QUARK: You call that a reform? Taxes go against the very spirit of free enterprise. That's why they call it free. 
BRUNT: The government needed revenues to fund the new social programmes. Wage subsidies for the poor, retirement benefits for the aged, health care for 
QUARK: Stop, stop, stop! I had no idea things had gotten so bad. This is all Moogie's fault. She's been polluting Zek's mind with notions of equality and compassion. Whatever happened to survival of the fittest? Whatever happened to the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer? Whatever happened to pure, unadulterated greed? 
BRUNT: Things change. 
QUARK: And they're going to change back. The first thing I'm going to do is eliminate these so called reforms, before Ferenginar ends up looking like a Federation planet. 
BRUNT: Oh, I'm not sure the Congress of Economic Advisors will approve. 
QUARK: I don't care who they are or what they are. As Nagus, I can do what I want. 
BRUNT: Not anymore. All regulations proposed by the Nagus have to be ratified by the Congress before they become law. You'll still be a powerful man. I wouldn't be sucking up to you otherwise. 
(Quark kneels in front of his idol.) 
QUARK: Blessed Exchequer, forgive us. Tour children have gone astray. 
[Cellar]
MILA: If only they could see you now. 
GARAK: Who? 
MILA: People in the street. Everyone's talking about Damar and his rebels. 
KIRA: What are they saying? How stupid we were for walking into a Dominion trap? 
DAMAR: How arrogant we were to think we could beat them in the first place? 
GARAK: How glad they are that we're dead? 
MILA: Actually, they don't really believe you are dead. Oh, you should hear the stories. Damar is alive. My cousin saw him on Kelvas Prime. He faked his own death. He is plotting a new offensive from his secret mountain hideaway. 
GARAK: You never told me you had a secret mountain hideaway. 
DAMAR: I was going to surprise you. 
KIRA: I wonder why they refuse to believe you're dead? 
DAMAR: Oh, they've been lied to so often, they don't trust anything the Dominion says. 
KIRA: What if it's more than that? What if we had more of an impact than we realised? What if we turned you into a legend? 
DAMAR: Some legend. 
KIRA: Don't you see? People want to believe in you. We can use that. Yes, the organised resistance is gone, but there's an entire civilian population out there that is fed up with living under the occupation. And if Damar, the man they couldn't kill, tells the people of Cardassia to rise up against the Dominion 
GARAK: Then we might have a revolution on our hands. 
MILA: Or you might really get yourselves killed. 
DAMAR: Anything's better than rotting in this cellar. How do we begin? 
KIRA: Where's the closest Jem'Hadar barracks? 
[Dominion briefing room]
(Doorbell) 
FOUNDER: Come in. 
(Two Breen then Weyoun enter.) 
WEYOUN: Allow me to present Gul, no, I'm sorry, Legate Broca, the new leader of the Cardassian Union. 
(Broca enters.) 
BROCA: I serve the Founders in all things. 
FOUNDER: Your service is noted. 
BROCA: Thot Pran, I look forward to working with you and the Breen Confederacy. 
PRAN: (electronic noise) 
WEYOUN: Your first task will be to make a formal address to the Cardassian people, assuring them that the Dominion has their best interests at 
FOUNDER: That can wait. 
WEYOUN: But it can wait. 
FOUNDER: Now that the rebellion has been crushed, it is time to turn our attention to strategic matters. The enemy has devised a countermeasure to our energy-dampening weapons. Therefore we must alter our tactics. We're falling back. 
PRAN: (electronic noise) 
FOUNDER: No, I don't mean surrender. 
WEYOUN: Perish the thought. The Dominion has never surrendered in battles since its founding ten thousand years ago. 
FOUNDER: I am ordering our troops to retreat to Cardassian space. We will establish a new line of defence along this perimeter. With less territory to defend, we can concentrate our troops and hold off any attack if the enemy attacks at all. 
WEYOUN: The Federation is by its very nature timid. When they see we've pulled back, their first impulse will be to leave us alone. 
BROCA: But what about the Klingons and the Romulans and (gets a Look) I meant no disrespect. I was simply asking a question. 
WEYOUN: Without the Federation, the others are no threat to us. 
FOUNDER: Once the new perimeter is established, we will redouble our shipbuilding efforts and increase production of Jem'Hadar troops. Retreat may prolong the war, but in the end, we will emerge stronger, and in a far better position to take the Alpha Quadrant once and for all. 
[Quark's cafe]
(Coming up the stairs.) 
QUARK: Did you know this Congress of Economic Meddlers actually passed legislation making monopolies illegal? What's the point of being in business if you can't corner the market and gouge your customers? 
ROM: There's something to be said for keeping prices down by ensuring healthy competition. So what are you going to do with the bar? 
QUARK: You can't even dump industrial waste anymore because it might harm the natural habitat. I'm supposed to start worrying about animals now? Look how they live, wallowing in dirt, sleeping in trees. That's not natural. 
ROM: I suppose you could argue that Ferenginar's biodiversity is a precious resource that belongs to everyone. So, what are you going to do with the bar? 
QUARK: And don't even get me started about this whole labour rights thing. What have we come to if you can't demand sexual favors from people in your employ? 
ROM: Unharassed workers are productive workers. So, what are you going to do with the bar? 
QUARK: Sell it. What would I want with it anymore? 
ROM: I'll give you five thousand bars of latinum and not one slip more. 
QUARK: That's reasonable. 
ROM: It is? 
QUARK: I'm telling you, Rom, our people have lost their way. 
ROM: I just happen to have a contract right here. 
QUARK: I read a report that over forty percent of the population no longer believes that you have to buy your way into the Divine Treasury when you die. 
ROM: Can I have your thumbprint here, please? 
QUARK: They don't teach children the Rules of Acquisition anymore. 
(Quark imprints the PADD.) 
ROM: And another print here. 
QUARK: There's a disease spreading through Ferengi society. It's making us soft. 
(Print.) 
ROM: The five thousand has been transferred to your account. It was a pleasure doing business with you. 
QUARK: Five thousand? 
ROM: I thought you were going to hold me up for at least eight. 
QUARK: I didn't even haggle with you. 
ROM: I know. It really threw me off. 
QUARK: What's wrong with me? 
ROM: Don't worry, brother. You're going to be so rich, what's a few thousand bars of latinum? 
QUARK: I've been infected, too. I haven't raised prices in months. I've even been considering letting the dabo girls keep most of their tips. I've gone soft! 
ROM: I kind of like you better this way. 
QUARK: I don't. And I'm going to do something about it. This disease has got to be stopped before it destroys everything Ferenginar stands for. If Zek wants me to be Nagus, he's going to have to let me do things my way. Or else, I'll turn down the job! 
ROM: Are you serious? 
QUARK: You bet I am. 
ROM: But being Nagus will make you rich. 
QUARK: I don't care. I won't preside over the demise of Ferengi civilisation. Not me. The line has to be drawn here. This far and no further! 
(Cardassian street]
(Kira and Damar are hiding in the shadows from the passers-by.) 
KIRA: He's been in there too long. Something's wrong. 
(Garak comes out of the barracks.) 
JEM'HADAR: You there. Stop. Let me see your work order. 
GARAK: But I showed it to you on the way in. 
JEM'HADAR: This has not been approved by the First. 
GARAK: Ah. Yes. I can explain that. 
DAMAR: How much time? 
KIRA: The detonator only had a three minute delay. The bomb could go off any second now. 
DAMAR: Come on, Garak. 
KIRA: We have to do something. 
(Kira moves away.) 
GARAK: I don't know why you're making such a fuss over this. I have a busy repair schedule and I can't stand here all night arguing with 
JEM'HADAR: You will wait here until the First arrives. 
GARAK: And how long will that be? 
JEM'HADAR: You will wait. 
DAMAR: You! Jem'Hadar! Who are you to treat a Cardassian citizen like that? 
JEM'HADAR: It's him. Damar. Hold him here. Surrender yourself or die. 
DAMAR: I choose neither. 
(Kira shoots the Jem'Hadar, Garak stabs the other one in the neck and runs.) 
DAMAR: Get back! Get back! 
(KaBOOM! goes the barracks, sending people flying. When the secondary explosions die down, civilians approach. Damar and Garak pick themselves up. Kira is still in the shadows.) 
LONAR: It's Damar. It's Damar! He's alive! 
DAMAR: Citizens of Cardassia, hear me! The Dominion told you that the Rebellion has been crushed. What you have seen here today proves that that is yet another lie. Our fight for freedom continues, but it will take place here, in the streets. I call on Cardassians everywhere to rise up. Rise up and join me. I need you to be my army. If we stand together, nothing can oppose us. Freedom is ours for the taking! 
GARAK: Freedom! 
LONAR: Freedom! 
CROWD: Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! Freedom! 
[Corridor]
BASHIR: Good morning. 
EZRI: Good morning. 
EZRI: What are you smiling at? 
BASHIR: You know, I was thinking. If it hadn't been for our little talk the other day, we'd probably be just standing here staring at our shoes. 
EZRI: Not a chance. I'd have turned and walked the other way as soon as I saw you. 
BASHIR: I'm glad we've put it all behind us. 
EZRI: Me too. 
(The turbolift arrives. A woman gets out.) 
BASHIR: Excuse me. 
(Ezri and Bashir get in.) 
[Ops]
(The turbolift arrives with Bashir and Ezri locked in a passionate kiss.) 
O'BRIEN: I guess they worked it out. 
(Worf sends the turbolift back down again.) 
[Quark's]
BRUNT: It always brings a tear to my eye to see a Nagus pass his staff to his successor. It's a privilege to witness such a historic moment. 
QUARK: Just wait and see. It's going to be more historic than you think. 
LEETA: They're here! 
(Zek, Ishka and Maihar'du enter.) 
ZEK: There you are, my boy! I have something for you. 
QUARK: Not so fast, Zek. We need to talk. 
ISHKA: I knew you were going to make this difficult. 
ZEK: My mind is made up, Quark. Whining and complaining won't do anything. 
QUARK: I won't have anything to do with you're doing to our once proud civilisation. A man can only be pushed so far. If you want me to be Nagus, you're going to have to let me do things my way. 
ISHKA: Who wants you to be Nagus? 
ZEK: Out of the way, Quark. Congratulations, Rom. You're going to make a fine Nagus. 
ROM: I am? 
ZEK: What's wrong? You seemed so happy when I talked to you the other day. 
ROM: I did? 
QUARK: That was me! 
ZEK: You? Ew. I thought I was talking to Rom. It must've been all the static. Glad we cleared that up. 
QUARK: This is insane. You actually want Rom to be Nagus? 
ISHKA: It was my idea. 
QUARK: Figures. He's an idiot. 
ISHKA: You've always underestimated your brother. 
(Quark walks away.) 
ZEK: Shh. A new Ferenginar needs a new kind of Nagus. A kinder, gentler Nagus. And that's you, my boy. It's a great responsibility to stand at the bow of the Ferengi ship of state. A Nagus has to navigate the waters of the Great Material Continuum, avoid the shoals of bankruptcy and seek the strong winds of prosperity. 
(Rom takes the staff from Zek.) 
ROM: I'll do the best I can. 
BRUNT: May I be the first to offer my congratulations. 
(Maihar'du pushes Brunt aside.) 
LEETA: Oh, Rom! 
NOG: Way to go, Dad! 
QUARK: All right, you want Rom? You can have him. In fact, you deserve him. He's perfect for this new worker's paradise of yours! He can save the environment and levy all the taxes he wants. 
ZEK: He's not taking it very well. 
QUARK: In fact, as far as I'm concerned, the Ferenginar that I knew doesn't exist anymore. No, I take that back. It will exist. Right here in this bar. This establishment will be the last outpost of what made Ferenginar great. The unrelenting lust for profit. Broik, water the drinks! M'Pella, rig the dabo table! Rom, I want to buy back the bar. 
ROM: That's all right, brother, I'll give it to you. 
QUARK: I suppose you're going to let me keep the five thousand bars of latinum too. 
ROM: You're my brother. 
QUARK: And you're an idiot. But I love you. Congratulations. You're the perfect Nagus for this new Ferenginar. 
ZEK: Are you sure we picked the right brother? 
ISHKA: Come, my dear. Risa's waiting. 
ZEK: Good luck, kid. You're going to need it. 
ISHKA: I'm proud of you, son. Let's go, Zekkie. 
(Zek, Ishka and Maihar'du leave) 
ROM: You know, I could use a financial advisor. 
QUARK: No kidding. But it's not going to be me. This Ferengi belongs right here. 
BRUNT: I know someone who's available 
ROM: Forget it! 
QUARK: Not so hasty. Let him give you a pedicure first. Now, if you'll excuse me, I've got to get back to work. There's money to be made. 
BRUNT: How can I serve you, my 
(Nog marches Brunt away.) 
ROM: Wow. 
[Wardroom]
(Dominion withdrawal map 7624N) 
ROSS: According to our intelligence reports, the Dominion has withdrawn completely from Klingon, Federation and Romulan space. They seem to be forming a new defensive perimeter within Cardassian territory. 
VELAL: They must know we've developed a countermeasure to the Breen weapon. 
SISKO: That would be my guess. 
MARTOK: There are advantages to falling back. They shorten their own supply lines while forcing us to lengthen ours. 
ROSS: And with a smaller perimeter they're less vulnerable to hit and run attacks. It would take a major offensive to break through their lines. 
VELAL: At a cost of thousands of ships. The wiser course would be to simply contain them within their perimeter. 
SISKO: That's what they're hoping we'll do, give them time to rebuild their forces. 
MARTOK: He's right. We have them on the defensive. We should hit them with everything we've got. 
ROSS: Break through that line would be a very ugly, very bloody job. 
SISKO: If we do nothing, the Dominion could sit behind that perimeter for the next five years rearming themselves. And when they're ready to come out, God help us all. 
MARTOK: The Klingon Empire votes to attack now before they have time to recover. 
ROSS: Considering the alternatives, I'm afraid I have to concur. 
VELAL: Very well. 
SISKO: Then it's settled. We attack. 
[Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: You're up late. You were waiting for me? What's wrong? 
KASIDY: I'm pregnant. 
SISKO: Are you sure? 
KASIDY: Of course I'm sure. 
SISKO: Oh, baby, I didn't mean. A baby. You and me. Wow. 
KASIDY: Surprise. 
SISKO: Surprise is right. How did? You? 
KASIDY: One of us 
SISKO: One of us 
KASIDY: Forgot our injection last month. 
SISKO: Julian reminded me of that. It's just that the way things been going on 
KASIDY: You don't have to apologise. 
SISKO: I'm not. Are you kidding? This, this is wonderful. 
KASIDY: I'm glad you think so. 
SISKO: But you don't? 
KASIDY: I just keep thinking about the Prophets. They warned you that marrying me would bring you sorrow. 
SISKO: Kasidy, we have been through this. 
KASIDY: I know we have. And I know that we said we wouldn't let the Prophets run our lives. But that was, that was before this. What if they were trying to tell you something? That something may happen to my baby? 
SISKO: Shh. Nothing is going to happen to our baby. 
KASIDY: Are you sure? 
SISKO: I am the Emissary of the Prophets and I know that nothing is going to happen. Everything is going to be all right. 
KASIDY: I hope you're right. 
SISKO: We're going to have a baby. 
KASIDY: A baby. 

