Episode Number: 404
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Past Prologue
Past Prologue
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 11 Jan, 1993
[Replimat]
GARAK: It's Doctor Bashir, isn't it? Of course it is. May I introduce myself? 
BASHIR: Er, yes, yes, of course. 
GARAK: My name is Garak. Cardassian by birth, obviously. The only one of us left on this station, as a matter of fact, so I do appreciate making new friends whenever I can. You are new to this station, I believe. 
BASHIR: I am, yes. Though, though I understand you've been here quite a while. 
GARAK: Ah, you know of me then. 
BASHIR: Would you care for some of this Tarkalean tea? It's very good. 
GARAK: What a thoughtful young man. How nice that we've met. 
BASHIR: You know, some people say that you remained on DS Nine as the eyes and ears of your fellow Cardassians. 
GARAK: You don't say? Doctor, you're not intimating that I'm considered some sort of spy, are you? 
BASHIR: I wouldn't know, sir. 
GARAK: Ah. An open mind. The essence of intellect. As you may also know, I have a clothing shop nearby, so if you should require any apparel, or merely wish, as I do, for a bit of enjoyable company now and then, I'm at your disposal, Doctor. 
BASHIR: You're very kind, Mister Garak. 
GARAK: Oh, it's just Garak. Plain, simple Garak. Now, good day to you, Doctor. I'm so glad to have made such an interesting new friend today. 
[Ops]
BASHIR: You won't never believe who just sat down next to me at the Replimat 
O'BRIEN: Major, upper pylon three'll be shut down for maintenance for forty-eight hours. 
BASHIR: The spy! Garak, the Cardassian. 
SISKO: We don't know for a fact Garak's a spy, Doctor. 
BASHIR: He is. You should have heard him. He introduced himself and he struck up conversation just like that. he was making contact with me, with me of all people. 
DAX: What do you think he might want from you, Julian? 
BASHIR: I don't know. Federation medical secrets? Rest assured they're safe with me, Commander. 
SISKO: I'm sure they are, Doctor Bashir. 
BASHIR: In fact, Chief O'Brien, I think you should place a monitoring device on me. Well, just in case he's up to something? 
SISKO: I don't think that'll be necessary, Doctor. Just be very cautious when you're around him. 
KIRA: (who's had a hair cut) Commander? We've got a small craft taking evasive action. Cardassian war vessel in pursuit. 
SISKO: On screen. 
KIRA: That's Bajoran. That damned Cardassian's firing at a Bajoran scout ship in Bajoran space! 
SISKO: Mister O'Brien? 
O'BRIEN: Confirmed, sir. They've crossed into Bajoran space. 
SISKO: Open a hailing frequency to the Cardassians. 
O'BRIEN: Channel open. 
SISKO: Cardassian vessel, you are violating Bajoran space. Break off your pursuit. Repeat, break off now. 
O'BRIEN: No reply from the Cardassians. The Bajoran vessel is hailing us. 
SISKO: Open the channel. 
TAHNA [OC]: Space station, do you read? Space station 
O'BRIEN: We can only get audio, Commander. 
SISKO: This is Benjamin Sisko, Starfleet Commander of the station. Who are you? Why are they pursuing? 
TAHNA [OC]: Please! Repeating request for emergency docking! Please! 
DAX: The Bajoran scout ship is badly damaged. Structural integrity is failing. 
(The little ship gets hit again) 
DAX: He's breaking up. 
SISKO: Get him out, Mister O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
(KaBOOM, and a crouching figure is beamed in) 
BASHIR: Medical assistance to Ops. 
TAHNA: My name is Tahna Los. Request political asylum. Kira? 
(after the opening credits, medics are wheeling Tahna away) 
KIRA: His name is Tahna Los. We fought together in the underground. 
O'BRIEN: Commander, the Cardassians are hailing us. 
KIRA: Now they want to talk. 
O'BRIEN: They're hopping mad. 
SISKO: Open the channel, Mister O'Brien. 
GUL DANAR [on viewscreen]: Federation Commander, you've taken aboard a known criminal. You will turn him over to us. 
SISKO: He has requested asylum. 
GUL DANAR [on viewscreen]: You have not granted it. 
SISKO: To be honest, I haven't decided yet. 
GUL DANAR [on viewscreen]: He is Kohn-Ma! Even the Bajorans would not grant his kind asylum. He has committed heinous crimes against the Cardassian people and I demand you release him to our custody. 
SISKO: I'll investigate the matter immediately. In the interim, if you'd care to dock your vessel, I'll be glad to hear an explanation for having violated Bajoran space and threatened a Federation facility. 
GUL DANAR [on viewscreen]: We have made no threat to your facility. 
SISKO: I stand corrected. Sisko out. 
(transmission ends) 
SISKO: The Major and I will be at the Infirmary. I'd like some time to talk with this fellow Tahna. When Gul Danar comes in, it'd be nice if we had a few docking regulations to keep him outside a while. 
O'BRIEN: Understood. 
(Sisko and Kira get onto the lift) 
KIRA: You're not seriously considering handing Tahna over to the Cardassians? 
[Turbolift]
SISKO: Were you part of this Kohn-Ma, Major? 
KIRA: If I had been, I would not be working with the provisional government now. 
SISKO: You'd still be out murdering Cardassians or even some Bajorans that the Kohn-Ma hold in contempt. Didn't they claim responsibility for the assassination of one of your First Ministers last month? 
[Promenade]
KIRA: Look, I know Tahna. 
SISKO: Is he Kohn-Ma? 
KIRA: Yes, but 
SISKO: I suggest you get your priorities straight, Major, because I don't have any room for divided loyalties in this command. And I won't have a Kohn-Ma terrorist using this station as a protective shield for continuing violence. 
KIRA: My priorities are straight, Commander. Let's not be confused here. my loyalties are to Bajor, and Bajor needs men like Tahna Los. 
SISKO: Apparently his war with the Cardassians isn't over yet. 
KIRA: If Bajor is ever to rebuild a strong and independent society, it will require the repatriation of splinter groups like the Kohn-Ma. You have, we have, an opportunity here, Commander. I hope you don't miss it. 
[Infirmary]
Tahna is on his side on a biobed) 
KIRA: How is he? 
BASHIR: Second degree burns, lacerations, a minor concussion. Not much compared to what he's been through before. 
SISKO: Before? 
BASHIR: The most recent of these scars is only two, perhaps three years old. 
TAHNA: Two and a half, actually. 
BASHIR: It's remarkable you lived through this. 
KIRA: It's a Cardassian technique designed to keep you alive. 
SISKO: I'm Commander Benjamin Sisko. I have a few questions for you if you're up to answering them. 
KIRA: Commander Sisko hasn't decided whether to grant you asylum yet, Tahna. 
SISKO: Major, perhaps I should conduct this alone. 
TAHNA: Major? 
KIRA: I'm the liaison officer to the Federation here. Still fighting for Bajor in my own way. I'll stop by later. 
(Kira leaves) 
TAHNA: What do you need to know, Commander? 
SISKO: For starters, why were they chasing you? 
TAHNA: You really want to hear the story of my life? 
SISKO: I assume as a member of the Kohn-Ma you've committed serious acts against them. 
TAHNA: Any one of a hundred that would lead to a Cardassian death sentence. 
SISKO: Any of them since their withdrawal from Bajor? 
TAHNA: Frankly, yes. 
SISKO: Why would you continue the violence against them now? 
TAHNA: To be honest, I'm not sure anymore. We say we're punishing them for crimes committed against us for over half a century, but I've had enough of the killing. 
BASHIR: I'm sorry, Commander. He needs rest now. 
[Kira's quarters]
(Kira is telling on Sisko to a lady Admiral) 
KIRA: Admiral, I think Commander Sisko's being incredibly short-sighted. He obviously doesn't understand the issues involved. 
ROLLMAN [on monitor]: Thank you for bringing this to my attention, Major. I'll stay in close touch with the situation. 
KIRA: Thank you, Admiral. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: Sir, the Cardassian warship has docked. Lieutenant Dax is making sure that all procedural details are precisely observed, no matter how long it takes. 
SISKO: Well done. I have some more research to do on the Kohn-Ma before I see them. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, I don't know much about the Bajoran terrorists, but you've never fought the Cardassians, have you? 
SISKO: No. 
O'BRIEN: Well, you just wouldn't want to turn a man, any man over to their tender care, sir. You just wouldn't. Subspace transmission from Admiral Rollman for you, Commander. 
SISKO: In my office. 
[Commander's office]
ROLLMAN [on monitor]: Ben, that Bajoran woman you have working for you interrupted a staff meeting to tell me how she disapproves of your handling of this asylum matter. I think you have a problem there, Commander. 
SISKO: Yes, Admiral. 
[Infirmary]
(Tahna wakes with a start) 
KIRA: It's all right. You're safe. 
TAHNA: Strange to run into each other here, isn't it? 
KIRA: It's good to be with someone who knows what it's been like out there. 
TAHNA: Wearing that uniform, I thought maybe you'd forgotten. 
KIRA: Never. 
TAHNA: Working on the inside hasn't dulled that old fire just a little? 
KIRA: Ask Sisko about that. 
TAHNA: Don't get along? 
KIRA: Oil and water. You're tired. I should go. 
TAHNA: Kira, do you think he'll give me to the Cardassians? 
KIRA: Over my dead body. 
TAHNA: That's the Kira I remember. 
[Commander's Office]
GUL DANAR: If you require all vessels to endure such lengthy docking procedures, Commander, you're going to have a lot of impatient traffic out there. 
SISKO: I apologise. We're still trying to repair all the damage your forces did before they left. It does create unreasonable delays. 
GUL DANAR: I accept your apology, but not your explanation. What about Tahna Los? 
SISKO: Well, we've got a problem. 
GUL DANAR: A diplomatic insult to the Cardassian people would be a problem. Delivering a wanted criminal to us would not be. 
SISKO: Danar, in war, both sides commit atrocities. 
GUL DANAR: I can only tell you that we are certain he plans to commit more acts of terrorism 
SISKO: He tells me that he has renounced the Kohn-Ma and wants to help to rebuild Bajor. 
GUL DANAR: He committed brutal acts of destruction and murder and he must pay for those crimes. 
SISKO: I appreciate the Cardassian position but I know if a Bajoran freedom-fighter is turned over to the Cardassians by the Federation, that would be a mistake that would undermine everything that I'm trying to accomplish here. So, with apologies, I'm going to grant him asylum for the time being. Eventually, he'll want to relocate to Bajor and if you want to pursue the matter with the Provisional Government, then that's your business. 
[Tahna's quarters]
KIRA: How long since you've slept in a comfortable bed? 
TAHNA: I can adapt to that part very quickly, thank you. 
KIRA: I'm glad you're here. We need you, Tahna. 
TAHNA: I don't think the Federation has any use for my particular talents. 
KIRA: I mean Bajor needs you. If you had the impression that I'm a Federation officer in any way, I promise you I 
TAHNA: I thought you were under Sisko's command. 
KIRA: I am, but 
TAHNA: You see, that's something I could never adapt to. 
KIRA: Somebody has to coordinate relations between the Federation and the Provisional Government, At least with someone like me here 
TAHNA: Why? Why should they be here at all? What right does this so-called Provisional Government have to bring them here 
KIRA: I know 
TAHNA: After everything we fought for, Kira. Freedom from domination, true independence. No outsiders. No Cardassians, and no Federations. 
KIRA: Things have changed, Tahna. With the discovery of the wormhole 
TAHNA: Oh, yes, the wormhole. 
KIRA: Look, I don't want the Federation here any more than you do but they are serving a purpose. For the time being, at least. Without the Federation, the Cardassians would be back in a minute to take control of the wormhole. And the wormhole is the future of Bajor, Tahna. It's bringing ships and commerce. It's making us a power in the quadrant. 
TAHNA: I don't want to be a power in the quadrant. I want Bajor for Bajorans. I want our homeland back. 
KIRA: We have it back. And as we grow stronger, we'll be able to defend it ourselves without having to lean on the Federation or anyone else. I know it's difficult to see. After all we've been through, we want it all now. But with people like you leading the way 
TAHNA: You have adapted, haven't you. 
KIRA: Tahna, I've put myself on the line for you here. You are finished with the Kohn-Ma? 
TAHNA: Yes. Yes, I am finished with the Kohn-Ma. 
KIRA: I've been talking with several of the ministers of the Provisional Government about amnesty. For you and any member of the Kohn-Ma who follows you. 
TAHNA: There are some who might, if there were assurances. 
KIRA: I'm working on it, Tahna. I'll find a way to make it happen. 
[Promenade]
(by the airlock, two Klingon women are being held at gunpoint. One deputy is on the floor.) 
ODO: What? 
DEPUTY: Sir, we've had a little problem. These two women are just arriving. They objected to giving up their weapons. 
LURSA: Klingons do not surrender their weapons. 
ODO@ Who are you? 
LURSA: We are Lursa and B'Etor. Of the house of Duras. 
ODO: And we have specific regulations. You can leave the weapons or leave the station. Your choice. Please make it now. 
B'ETOR: Who are you? 
ODO: I'm the one giving you the choice. 
(They hand over the weapons) 
ODO: Welcome to DS Nine. 
[Commander's office]
ODO: We have some new guests you might be interested in. A couple of Klingon sisters from the Duras Family. 
SISKO: Lursa and B'Etor. 
ODO: You know them, then. 
SISKO: They tried to grab control of the Klingon High Council, started a brief civil war. They've been out of sight since then. 
ODO: I ran a security check. The Klingons have them listed as renegades. 
SISKO: We've heard they've been trying to raise capital to rebuild their armies. What are they doing here? 
ODO: Sitting. They went straight to Quark's, but not for the gambling and certainly not for the food. They're just sitting. 
SISKO: I don't like it. 
ODO: Why don't I lock them up and call the Klingons to come get them. 
SISKO: Odo. 
ODO: If they're enemies of the Klingon High Council? 
SISKO: They haven't broken any laws here. You can't just throw them in jail. 
ODO: You know, Cardassian rule may have been oppressive, but at least it was simple. 
SISKO: Keep an eye on them. 
ODO: As you wish, Commander. 
[Quark's]
(Busy as ever. Lursa and B'etor are on the upper balcony, drinking, while Garak is watching them from a table in a corner.) 
BASHIR: And how are you this evening, Mister Garak? Excuse me, just plain, simple Garak, you said. 
GARAK: Plain and simple. Join me, Doctor. Enhance my evening. 
BASHIR: Keeping an eye on the ebb and flow of things, are you? 
GARAK: As a clothier, I do have a keen interest in what the population is wearing from day to day. Klingons have an odd sense of style, don't you agree? 
BASHIR: Oh, yes, they do. 
GARAK: But intriguing. I would say that those two outfits are worth studying closely. Look. 
(Odo is also at the bar. Tahna enters. The sisters see him and come downstairs, and they all leave.) 
[Cargo bay]
LURSA: All right, where's the payment. 
(A rodent runs over a crate) 
TAHNA: It's on its way. 
B'ETOR: That was not the arrangement. 
TAHNA: I couldn't stop to get it. I barely got past the Cardassians. 
LURSA: Your safety is not our concern. 
B'ETOR: Your gold is. 
TAHNA: It will be available tomorrow. 
B'ETOR: Good. Because if we have made this trip for nothing, you will have made a fatal mistake. 
(They leave, and the rodent turns into Odo) 
[Ops]
KIRA: I've managed to arrange a hearing of the Ministers' Court. 
SISKO: Any predictions? 
KIRA: I have two of the ministers, the smart ones, ready to vote for amnesty. I'm sure one of the others will fall in line. 
SISKO: Good. 
KIRA: And Tahna says two more of the Kohn-Ma are willing to follow him if you'll guarantee their safety. 
SISKO: Done. 
KIRA: I have to say this, Commander. When we first talked I wasn't sure you. This wouldn't have been possible without your support. I want you to know it's appreciated. 
SISKO: Be sure to mention it the next time you chat with Admiral Rollman. 
KIRA: Sir. 
SISKO: Go over my head again and I'll have yours on a platter 
[Commander's Office]
(Odo is waiting) 
SISKO: So, Constable. News about our Klingon sisters? 
ODO: They seem to make friends easily. 
SISKO: Friends? 
ODO: Our reformed Kohn-Ma, for example. 
SISKO: Tahna with Lursa and B'Etor? 
ODO: Talking about a business arrangement. He's paying them for something. I don't know what. The gold is supposedly on its way. 
SISKO: Two other members of the Kohn-Ma may be bringing it. 
ODO: How do you know that? 
SISKO: Major Kira mentioned that they were on their way. 
ODO: Do you want her to know about this? 
SISKO: Not quite yet. 
[Garak's shop]
LURSA: You are the clothier, Garak? 
GARAK: At your service, madam. May I show you our latest fashions? Perhaps some silk lingerie from Kraus Four? 
B'ETOR: Watch your tongue, Cardassian, or I'll rip it out and eat it. 
GARAK: I meant no offence. I have few Klingon patrons. So, is there something you wish to buy? 
LURSA: We are not here to buy. We are here to sell. 
B'ETOR: We understand you still represent Cardassian interests here. 
GARAK: I am only a simple clothing merchant. 
B'ETOR: We have no time for your games. Do you want Tahna Los or not? 
GARAK: You are in a position to deliver the Bajoran to Cardassian authorities? 
LURSA: What is he worth to them? 
B'ETOR: In gold-pressed latinum. 
(Garak puts a number on a PADD.) 
LURSA: You insult us. 
GARAK: Ladies, ladies, please. Everything is negotiable. I am no more than what I seem to be, a merchant trying to make the best transaction. So, let us haggle. 
[Tahna's quarters]
TAHNA: Yes? 
KIRA: I have the third minister's vote. The hearing is simply a formality now. You are going to receive amnesty, Tahna. 
TAHNA: I never realised you were such an accomplished politician. 
KIRA: Me? A politician? No, I don't think so. 
TAHNA: You manipulate Sisko and the Federation, the ministers of the Provisional Government. 
KIRA: I'm just determined. I think they all simply get tired of hearing my voice. 
TAHNA: And here we expected to find that Kira Nerys had lost the fire in her heart. 
KIRA: What are you talking about? You knew I was here before you even came. Tahna, I trusted you. 
TAHNA: I am Kohn-Ma. I fight for the freedom of Bajor. You once fought for it as well. 
KIRA: I'm still fighting for it. 
TAHNA: Stop deluding yourself! You say you don't believe in the Federation, you say you don't believe in the Provisional Government, and yet you are their dance instructor. 
KIRA: That's not fair. 
TAHNA: Don't be naive, Major. 
KIRA: I don't want the Federation here, but for now 
TAHNA: Once you're in your comfortable bed with the Federation, you won't be able to get out. We won't be able to get out. 
KIRA: If you expect me to help you commit some act of violence against the Federation 
TAHNA: No. No, the violence is over. That is the truth. No one will get hurt in any way, I promise you that. But I do need your help. 
KIRA: You've already lied to me, Tahna. I know how the game works. 
TAHNA: To do what we plan, we need a small ship capable of warp speed. I gambled that I could convince you to get it for us. 
KIRA: Just what is this peaceful plan? 
TAHNA: In one move and non-violently, we accomplish everything both of us has ever wanted for Bajor. 
KIRA: How? 
TAHNA: I know the game too, Kira. You know I cannot risk telling you that. 
KIRA: How do you know I won't just go straight to Sisko? 
TAHNA: Well, if you do, we'll both know where your loyalties are, won't we? 
[Replimat]
BASHIR: Ah. Plain, simple Garak. How are you today? 
GARAK: Being observant, Doctor. 
BASHIR: I'm sure of it. 
GARAK: There's a time for levity, my young friend, and a time for genuine concern. The arrival on this station, for instance, of those two Kohn-Ma terrorists. 
(On the upper Promenade level, Tahna is talking to two men.) 
BASHIR: Terrorists? What are they doing here? 
GARAK: I'm not exactly sure. But together, we might have some success at finding out. 
BASHIR: Garak, I'm a doctor 
GARAK: And once you do have the appropriate answer, I'm sure you'll know what to do with it. 
BASHIR: I really must be getting along now. 
GARAK: Doctor, I think it's time for you to take advantage of my shop. If you'll be there at exactly twenty fifty five hours tonight, I promise to show you a suit that will make you into a new man. 
BASHIR: A suit? We're talking about terrorists, and you want me to buy a new suit? 
GARAK: Doctor, am I making myself clear? I want you to buy a new suit tonight at twenty fifty five, exactly. 
BASHIR: Er, yes, I see. Well, if you'll excuse me. (looks at the terrorists) A suit? 
[Ops]
(Kira is looking at Kohn-Ma activity reports. When Sisko speaks she switches off the screen) 
SISKO: Major? 
KIRA: Commander. 
SISKO: I'd like to meet the two Kohn-Ma who just arrived as soon as possible. 
KIRA: Of course. I'll arrange it. 
SISKO: How do they seem to you? 
KIRA: Sir? 
SISKO: Do you feel as secure about them as you do about Tahna Los? 
KIRA: Absolutely. 
(Bashir enters) 
BASHIR: Commander Sisko. 
(Kira leaves) 
BASHIR: I need some guidance. 
SISKO: Yes, Doctor? 
BASHIR: It's about Garak, the Cardassian? I'm afraid this relationship has gotten a little out of hand. 
SISKO: How's that? 
BASHIR: He wants me to buy a suit. 
SISKO: A suit? 
BASHIR: At exactly twenty fifty five tonight. 
SISKO: Why twenty fifty five? 
BASHIR: I don't know but it has something to do with those two Bajoran terrorists on board. He says that together, he and I might discover what they're really doing here. I don't understand why he wants me involved. 
SISKO: Sometimes communications can't be conducted through official channels. Maybe this is their way of telling us that we have a common enemy. 
BASHIR: Well, what do you want me to do? 
SISKO: I think, Doctor, you could definitely use a new suit. 
[Security office]
KIRA: Busy? 
ODO: What can I do for you? 
KIRA: Are all the security measures in place for the trip to the Ministers' Court? 
ODO: I told you they'd be taken care of and they will. 
KIRA: Fine. 
ODO: You know, there's one thing about you humanoids I can't imitate very well. 
KIRA: What's that? 
ODO: Pretence. There's a special talent to it. It's as hard for me as creating one of your noses. 
KIRA: Maybe that's why I've learned to respect your opinion, Constable. Never any pretence. How much do you know about me, Odo? 
ODO: More than you probably realise. 
KIRA: I've done some things I'm not proud of. I still have nightmares about the raids on the Haru outposts, but at least I was sure of what I was doing then. 
ODO: And there's something you're not sure of now. 
KIRA: You have no more love for the Federation than I do. 
ODO: Meaning? 
KIRA: Maybe there are still wars to be fought and I'm just making a fool of myself doing what I'm doing here. 
ODO: It sounds like you're trying to talk yourself into something. Or out of something. 
KIRA: Either way, I have to betray someone. 
ODO: The only important thing is not to betray yourself. 
KIRA: How could I possibly turn against my own people? 
ODO: Are they? Your own people? 
KIRA: They're no different than I used to be. 
ODO: Used to be. 
KIRA: I could just refuse to help them. Ignore the whole thing. 
ODO: The Joranian ostrich hides by sticking its head under water. Sometimes even until it drowns. 
KIRA: Then they'd find a way to do whatever they want to do anyway and I'd still feel responsible for the consequences. It was so much easier when I knew who the enemy was. 
ODO: Odo to Sisko. 
SISKO [OC]: Go ahead. 
ODO: There's someone down here in security who wants to talk to you, Commander. 
[Garak's shop]
(The shop is closed and dark) 
GARAK: Quickly, Doctor, you're late. It's twenty fifty seven. Now just take this and try that on as many times as you like, and stay very, very quiet. 
BASHIR: I was just 
(Garak gives Bashir a jacket and hustles him into the fitting room, drawing the curtain) 
[Fitting room]
GARAK [OC]: Ah, right on time. Welcome. 
B'ETOR [OC]: Save your welcomes, Cardassian. Do your people want the Bajoran or not? 
GARAK [OC]: I can now venture to say, with some certainty, that you will receive the agreed-upon payment on delivery. 
[Garak's shop]
LURSA: We will complete our business with Tahna Los in four hours. 
GARAK: And what business might that be? 
B'ETOR: That is not your concern. 
GARAK: If it requires that those I represent must take extra precautions, it becomes my concern. 
LURSA: We will deliver him a cylinder of bilitrium. 
B'ETOR: The rendezvous will be on the dark side of Bajor Eight's lower moon. The Cardassians can have him then. 
(The sisters leave the shop and Garak lets Bashir out) 
BASHIR: What's bilitrium? 
GARAK: A rare crystalline element, that can be an incredibly powerful source of energy. Provided, of course, one also has an anti-matter converter. Unfortunately, that's why Cardassians were chasing Tahna Los when he arrived here. He stole one. 
BASHIR: But if he's got both. 
GARAK: Quite right, Doctor. He has the ingredients for a bomb. A bomb of significant destructive capability. 
[Ops]
SISKO: We have nothing to hold them on. they haven't committed any crime yet. 
ODO: Conspiracy is a crime. 
BASHIR: Conspiracy to what? We don't even know what their plan is. 
O'BRIEN: Once the switch with the Klingons is made, you've got them holding the components to an explosive device. That's enough evidence right there. 
KIRA: Chief O'Brien is right. We have to give them a runabout. 
SISKO: Agreed. 
KIRA: And I have to be on it. 
SISKO: Not agreed. Major. 
KIRA: Commander, Tahna doesn't know if he can trust me as it is. If I try to stay behind, he won't buy into this. The only way to convince him is if I'm on board. If Tahna fails, I promise you others will try. At least this way you can find out what they're up to. 
SISKO: Mister O'Brien, you and I will take a runabout to a point behind the second moon of Bajor Eight to avoid detection. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
SISKO: Dax, stay in touch with us on a secured channel. Keep an eye on the Cardassians. They'll be coming to the party, too. You get him there, Major. We'll be waiting. 
[Security office]
(Odo is watching on a monitor) 
ODO: They're moving into the runabout. 
[Ops]
DAX: Acknowledged. DS Nine to Ganges. 
SISKO [OC]: Go ahead. 
[Runabout Ganges]
DAX [OC]: They're in the Yangtzee Kiang. They're initialising pre-launch systems now. 
SISKO: Understood, Lieutenant. Shut down all main power systems. 
O'BRIEN: Dead quiet. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
(Tahna is plugging in his device) 
KIRA: Bajor Eight in one hundred twenty thousand kilometres. Dropping to impulse. What is that? 
TAHNA: An anti-matter converter. I'm transferring power from the ship's warp drive into the storage cells. 
KIRA: We've got a Klingon Bird of Prey decloaking dead ahead. 
TAHNA: It's all right. We're here to meet them. 
KIRA: Klingons? Why? 
TAHNA: You'll know soon enough. 
[Runabout Ganges]
O'BRIEN: The Klingons have powered up their transporters. 
SISKO: Prepare to go to full impulse. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
(Lursa and B'Etor beam in with a cylinder.) 
TAHNA: Thirteen kilograms of gold-pressed latinum, as promised. 
LURSA: This is yours. 
B'ETOR: 'eH. HImaH! 
(The sisters beam out) 
KIRA: What is it? 
TAHNA: Bajoran independence. 
[Runabout Ganges]
O'BRIEN: Bird of Prey is moving off and cloaking. 
SISKO: Set up an intercept course for the runabout. 
O'BRIEN: Intercept in one minute, twelve seconds. 
[Ops]
DAX: DS Nine to Ganges. 
SISKO [OC]: Ganges. 
DAX: The Cardassian warship Aldara is crossing the border, Benjamin, on an intercept course with the Yangtzee Kiang. They'll enter 
[Runabout Ganges]
DAX [OC]: Bajoran space in twenty nine seconds. 
SISKO: Acknowledged. 
O'BRIEN: The Yangtzee's sensors should be picking us up now, sir. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
TAHNA: What is that? 
KIRA: It's another runabout. 
TAHNA: They must've been waiting for us here. How did they know? 
KIRA: We also have got a Cardassian warship three minutes away. The Klingons must have sold us out. 
TAHNA: Prepare to engage warp engines. 
KIRA: There's nowhere to run, Tahna. 
TAHNA: We don't have to go far. 
(Kira tries to get a phaser but Tahna hits her.) 
TAHNA: I should have know. Now set the course for DS Nine. 
KIRA: No. 
TAHNA: If you don't, I'll explode the bomb right here and destroy all six colonies on Bajor Eight. 
KIRA: You would kill thousands of your own people for this? 
TAHNA: The question is whether you would kill them by refusing to set the course. 
[Runabout Ganges]
O'BRIEN: They've gone to warp. 
SISKO: Follow them. Ganges to Yangtzee Kiang. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
SISKO [OC]: Drop out of warp, or we will open fire. 
(Tahna puts him bomb together) 
SISKO [OC]: Repeat. Reduce your power immediately or we will open fire. TAHNA: I doubt that he'll shoot while his Major is on board. But just in case. This is the voice of the Kohn-Ma. 
[Runabout Ganges]
TAHNA [OC]: There is an armed bilitrium explosive device on board this ship. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
TAHNA: Fire on us and you will detonate it. 
[Runabout Ganges]
O'BRIEN: If that device goes off while they're at warp, they'll spread radiation across half the system. 
SISKO: He's headed straight back for the station. This is the Federation vessel Ganges to Cardassian warship Aldara. 
GUL DANAR [on monitor]: So, we're finally allies, Commander. 
SISKO: Gul Danar, the Federation runabout Yangtzee Kiang is carrying an explosive bilitrium device. Can you intercept before it reaches the space station? 
GUL DANAR [on monitor]: Our time to intercept is two minutes, fourteen seconds. 
O'BRIEN: That's about a minute too late, Commander. 
GUL DANAR [on monitor]: If I may take this opportunity to say that I warned you 
(Sisko ends the transmission) 
SISKO: Can we get them in a tractor beam? 
O'BRIEN: Not at these speeds. They have twenty seven seconds on us. We may have to shoot them down, Commander. 
SISKO: Ready photons, Chief. We'll fire as soon as they slow to impulse. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
KIRA: One hundred thousand kilometres to DS Nine. This is your idea of a non-violent solution? You realise there are hundreds of Bajoran civilians aboard the station. 
TAHNA: No one's going to be hurt, Kira. Adjust your course to take a vectored approach past the mouth of the wormhole. 
KIRA: The wormhole? It's not the space station you're after. You can't possibly believe you can destroy the wormhole with that device? 
TAHNA: I don't have to destroy it, just have to collapse the entrance. 
KIRA: You're only hurting Bajor by doing this, Tahna. 
TAHNA: No more wormhole, no more Federation or Cardassians. Or anyone. Drop out of warp. Now! 
(Kira does so, and also a sharp turn to throw Tahna off balance.) 
[Runabout Ganges]
O'BRIEN: My God, they're going into the wormhole. At full impulse. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
(WHOOSH&gt; Kira and Tahna fight as they travel through the conduit. They're safely through to the other side of the wormhole before he manages to launch the bomb, and it does no damage. Ganges comes out of the wormhole to join them.) 
TAHNA: Damn you! 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Kira. Are you all right, Major? 
TAHNA: No, she's not all right, Commander. And if you want her alive you'll do exactly as I say. 
SISKO [OC]: Listen to me carefully, Tahna. 
[Runabout Ganges]
SISKO: You can either surrender now to me or you can wait for the Cardassian warship 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
SISKO [OC]: And I can let them deal with you this time. 
[Runabout Ganges]
SISKO: Your choice. 
[Runabout Yangtzee Kiang]
(Tahna hands the phaser to Kira) 
KIRA: There'll be no further resistance, Commander. 
[Airlock]
(Kira brings in Tahna, and Odo arrests him) 
KIRA: Tahna, the old ways don't work anymore. Everything is different now. I had to do this. One day you'll understand. 
TAHNA: Traitor. 

