Episode Number: 409
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Passenger
The Passenger
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 22 Feb, 1993
[Runabout Rio Grande]
KIRA: I've never seen anything like that. 
BASHIR: Hmm? 
KIRA: I've never seen anything like that. 
BASHIR: The woman? 
KIRA: She was dead. The tricorder clearly showed 
BASHIR: Ah yes, well, tricorders. Very accurate with live people, not so accurate with dead ones. We learn that first year medical school. 
KIRA: Well, I was very impressed, Doctor. 
BASHIR: And well you should have been. I impressed myself on this one actually. I can't imagine what other doctor would even consider examining the scapular nodes for parasitic infection. I just seem to have a talent, I suppose. A vision that sees past the obvious, around the mundane, right to the target. Fate has granted me a gift, Major. A gift to be a healer. 
KIRA: I feel privileged to be in your presence. 
BASHIR: Glad to have you along. 
KIRA: Did anyone ever tell you that you're 
COMPUTER: Priority one broad band distress signal. 
KAJADA [OC]: Kobliad transport Reyab to any ship. Our central power linkage exploded. We're losing life support. Please respond. 
BASHIR: Just picking it up on long range sensors. Bearing three four seven mark zero eight. 
KIRA: I'm reading massive energy leakage. Its aft structural integrity field is failing. This is the Federation Ship Rio Grande. We're on our way. 
[Kobliad transport]
(Kira and Bashir beam into a smoky corridor.) 
BASHIR: O-2 pressure dropping rapidly. Toxic gas levels are rising. We've got no more than ten minutes breathing time left in here. 
KIRA: Automatic fire suppression must be offline. I'll check the central power linkage. 
(Bashir sees to a woman lying on the floor.) 
BASHIR: Relax. I'm a doctor. 
KAJADA: What happened? 
BASHIR: You lost consciousness. Now listen, is there anyone else aboard your ship? We've got to evacuate it. 
KAJADA: The pilot is dead. 
BASHIR: I'm reading another lifeform. 
(He goes to a closed door) 
KAJADA: No. Don't open that. 
BASHIR: It's sealed. 
KAJADA: The prisoner I was transporting, he started the fire to escape. 
BASHIR: He's dying. Where's the manual override? 
KAJADA: No. Stop! Don't! 
[Cell]
(A figure on the floor, and flames all around) 
KAJADA: Wait. Don't go in there. He's dangerous. 
BASHIR: I assure you, in this condition, he's of no threat to anyone. 
(Kira enters with a fire extinguisher) 
KIRA: Power linkages are completely shot. Manoeuvring subsystems are out. I've managed to stabilize the structural integrity field, but I don't know how long it's going to last. We'll have to tow it in. 
BASHIR: His synaptic fields are dissipating. I can't get a neural reading. I have to get him to the emergency unit on the runabout. 
KIRA: Computer, four to transport. 
(The unconscious man grabs Bashir by the throat) 
VANTIKA: Make me live. 
(And he dies) 
BASHIR: This one I can't bring back. 
[Infirmary]
(Bashir wakes his patient) 
KAJADA: Where am I? 
BASHIR: You're on Station DS Nine. I'm Doctor Julian Bashir. 
KAJADA: Ty Kajada, Kobliad Security. DS Nine? But that's where he was going. Where is he? Where is Vantika? 
BASHIR: Your prisoner? He's dead. 
KAJADA: You're certain. 
BASHIR: Yes. You were the only survivor. 
KAJADA: Where's his body? 
BASHIR: I have it in stasis. 
KAJADA: I want to see it. 
BASHIR: When you're feeling stronger 
KAJADA: Now! 
[Stasis room]
(The body is pulled out of it's cabinet) 
BASHIR: Preliminary examinations indicated the subject died of a massive respiratory failure, brought on by the pulmonary trauma suffered during the fire. 
KAJADA: Are you sure it's the same body? 
BASHIR: Quite certain. It's been sealed in here ever since our arrival. 
KAJADA: Have you run a retinal imaging scan? 
BASHIR: What for? 
KAJADA: To confirm that there is no residual activity in the visual cortex. 
BASHIR: Miss Kajada, I assure you he is dead. 
KAJADA: He's faked his death more times than I can tell you. And the last time someone thought he was dead, they didn't live to regret the mistake. 
BASHIR: He was a murderer? 
KAJADA: That description doesn't do justice to the horrors he's responsible for on my world. He's quite brilliant in his way. A man of science who killed others to prolong his own life. I've tracked him for twenty years. 
(She stabs the corpse) 
KAJADA: Please perform an autopsy. I want his identity confirmed with a DNA reference scan. 
BASHIR: Of course. 
KAJADA: And have someone scan my ship. I want to make sure there are no anomalous life forms on board. 
BASHIR: Are you sure that's necessary? 
KAJADA: Very sure. 
[Quark's]
QUARK: Iced raktajino, extra cream. 
DAX: Thank you, Quark. 
QUARK: At your service, day or night. 
DAX: Thanks. 
(Dax leaves) 
QUARK: Poor woman. She's obviously infatuated with me. 
ODO: You're deluding yourself. 
QUARK: There's nothing wrong with a good delusion. I sell them upstairs to dozens of people every day. Besides, there is something in her eyes when she looks at me. 
ODO: An allergic reaction, no doubt. 
QUARK: I think she's lonely. 
ODO: Dax? She has ten lifetimes worth of friends to call on before she calls you. And every man on the station would like to be buying her a raktajino. 
QUARK: Ah, but I'm the one with the raktajino machine. 
ODO: She seems to prefer spending most of her time alone, which I understand perfectly. 
QUARK: Then that must make her the perfect woman for you. 
ODO: I wouldn't intrude on her privacy, as some would. 
QUARK: You're pathetic. You think everyone in the galaxy should be as lonely and as miserable as you are. As hard as it may be for you to understand, some of us like company. The sound of a friendly voice. The sight of a familiar face. The feel of smooth, pliant flesh. 
ODO: Why do you bother? 
QUARK: It's good to want things. 
ODO: Even things you can't have? 
QUARK: Especially things I can't have. 
ODO: Like the deuridium shipment? 
QUARK: Deuridium shipment? Is there a deuridium shipment coming here? 
ODO: I'm watching you, Quark. 
QUARK: And I'm watching you, Jadzia. 
(Dax and Quark's eyes meet, and she smiles so Quark goes over to her table) 
PRIMMIN: (Starfleet Lieutenant) Interesting technique. Do you always get ready for an important operation by leaking word about it to the local black market? 
ODO: How I handle my business is none of your concern. 
[Promenade]
PRIMMIN: I'm afraid it is. Lieutenant George Primmin. Starfleet security, and if you don't mind, I would like to talk to you about the deuridium shipment from the Gamma Quadrant. 
ODO: There's nothing to discuss. Security is already in place. 
PRIMMIN: I would appreciate it if we could go over it anyhow. It took me three weeks to get here and I'd hate to think it was for nothing. 
ODO: If you insist. Meet me in my office at seventeen hundred hours. 
[Ops]
BASHIR: The autopsy revealed nothing out of the ordinary. Fingerprints, cerebral cortex scans, retinal patterns all matched up perfectly with the records Kajada provided. Vantika may have faked his death before, but I don't think he's faking this time. 
SISKO: Why was he coming here? 
BASHIR: They're Kobliad. 
DAX: The deuridium. 
KIRA: I'm sorry? 
SISKO: The Kobliad are a dying race. They need deuridium to stabilize their cell structure. It prolongs their lifespan. 
DAX: The Federation's been working to supply them with deuridium, but even the new deposits from the Gamma Quadrant aren't enough to service the whole population. It's so scarce that some of the Kobliad have gone underground to get it. 
KIRA: So he was coming here to hijack a shipment? 
DAX: Exactly. 
SISKO: Is Kajada satisfied with your autopsy? 
BASHIR: I don't think anything's going to convince her he's dead, Commander. 
DAX: Vantika has been the focus of Kajada's attention for most of her adult life. In a way, they were as intimately connected as any two beings could be. 
SISKO: Let's do her the courtesy of granting her requests as long as they're not too far out of line. A quick sweep of her ship is not too much to ask. I'm more concerned that Vantika might have had help here waiting to hijack the shipment. Ah, Mister Primmin. Good. In my office. I want to brief you on a security issue that's arisen. 
KIRA: I'll get Odo up here. 
PRIMMIN: Ah, that's okay, Major. I'll fill him in later on anything he needs to know. 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: How are you getting on with the Constable, Lieutenant? 
PRIMMIN: I'm sure he's very good at keeping order down there on the Promenade. 
SISKO: But 
PRIMMIN: Frankly, isn't the security of a deuridium shipment a little over his head? I mean, he was chatting about it in the bar with that Ferengi, Quark. If I could overhear it, so could half-dozen others. 
SISKO: It's hard to keep a secret in a place like this, Lieutenant. It's not a starship. 
PRIMMIN: I understand that. 
SISKO: I'm sure almost everyone knows about the shipment by now. Odo was probably making sure Quark knows we know he knows. 
PRIMMIN: It's not they way they taught us at the Academy, is it, sir. If you want my opinion 
SISKO: Actually, I don't. You and I are guests of the Bajorans, Lieutenant. You don't have to forget what you learned at the Academy, you just don't throw it in anyone's face here. If you're really smart, you might even learn a few new things about station security from our Constable. Clear? 
PRIMMIN: Very clear, sir. 
SISKO: Now, regarding the shipment. We've been made aware of a possible Kobliad plot to hijack the deuridium. You and Odo ought to have a talk with Kajada, the Kobliad security officer who arrived yesterday 
[Security office]
PRIMMIN: Before we get started, I want to apologise for us getting off on the wrong foot. 
ODO: Think nothing of it. 
PRIMMIN: Listen, I know this is your bailiwick. I don't mean to be throwing my weight around. No hard feelings? 
ODO: None at all. 
PRIMMIN: Just because I'm from Starfleet Security doesn't mean I don't respect your opinion. How about showing me what you've got and I'll see if there's anything we can work with. 
ODO: Lieutenant, you're welcome to see my plans, but I assure you I've taken every precaution regarding the shipment. However, if you have any suggestions, I'd be happy to hear them. (Database services not available) What? Odo to Ops. 
KIRA [OC]: Go ahead. 
ODO: Major, are we having some 
[Ops]
ODO [OC]: Sort of computer problem? 
(She checks her console) 
KIRA: Everything in active memory has been accessed and purged. 
[Security office]
ODO: That's impossible. 
KAJADA: Oh, it's possible. Vantika did the exact same thing on Rigel Seven. 
[Ops]
KAJADA: I know Vantika. I've learned to think as he thinks. 
BASHIR: Kajada, our best evidence suggests Vantika stopped thinking two days ago. 
KAJADA: He's alive. And he's on board this station. And his first thought when he came on board was to plan a way to access your security files on the deuridium shipment, which is exactly what he's done. 
PRIMMIN: Even if he was alive, it doesn't make sense that he would purge an entire computer memory to go after a single file. 
ODO: It makes perfect sense. Try to access the single file and you'd be stopped by a dozen different lock outs that I put in to protect it. 
KAJADA: But you would never consider locking out the active memory of your entire system. 
KIRA: It would make it impossible to use the computers at all. 
KAJADA: So that's where you're vulnerable. 
DAX: But how would he gain access? 
KAJADA: In the past, he's used a subspace shunt. It would be attached to a secondary system, something that runs through the entire facility but isn't covered by security. 
KIRA: The lighting controls, or the replicators. 
DAX: I'm showing an unauthorised tap into the computer system. A temperature control panel, Level twenty one, section ten. 
ODO + PRIMMIN: Security to 
ODO: To L twenty one, S ten. We're looking for a subspace crossover link to the computer system. 
SECURITY [OC]: Acknowledged. 
KAJADA: Tell them to be careful. Vantika undoubtedly equipped the shunt with an auto-destruct system. 
KIRA: You know that for certain without having to check? 
KAJADA: I know Vantika. 
SISKO: Miss Kajada, I must admit I'm having a tough time with your theory. 
KAJADA: Then you're making a fatal mistake. 
SISKO: Three passengers were on your ship. Two bodies are in our morgue. Unless the ghost of Vantika is 
KAJADA: Don't patronise me, Commander! 
SISKO: Isn't it more likely that some accomplice did this? 
KAJADA: Rao Vantika is obsessed with his own survival. He's prolonged his life with the use of drugs, cryogenics, transplants. As a medical supervisor in a high security penitentiary, he used prisoners for his illegal experiments in cellular longevity. He's organised raids on government labs to steal bio-regenerative research. I promise you when he started that fire on board my ship, he had a plan to survive. I'm not sure what that plan was, but I'm convinced it succeeded. 
SISKO: Doctor, how soon before we get the results of the DNA trace? 
BASHIR: I sent it to Starfleet Command yesterday. They'll have to coordinate with Kobliad security. I'd say another twelve hours. 
SISKO: Until then, we will operate under the assumption that Vantika is alive. 
ODO: Commander, may I have a word with you? 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: What's on your mind? 
ODO: My resignation. 
SISKO: You're overreacting. 
ODO: Oh, so you already know about this. 
SISKO: Yes, Lieutenant Primmin mentioned to me 
ODO: You asked me to stay in charge of security when you took command of this station. I did not ask you. 
SISKO: Constable, no one knows this station like you do. 
ODO: Yes, I've noticed that. Constable. Very cute. 
SISKO: It's an expression of affection. I believe Major Kira was the first to 
ODO: I don't need anyone's affection. I do need clear jurisdiction or I am out. 
SISKO: I like you, Odo. I like to know where a man stands. There's never been any question of that with you. I need you here. No Starfleet officer can do the job you do. 
ODO: You've got that straight. 
SISKO: But you have to realise that Starfleet is not going to take command of a station in deep space without assigning some security to protect its interests. 
ODO: Understandable. 
SISKO: You're going to have to work with Primmin. The two of you have to find a way to get along. 
ODO: Tell him that. 
SISKO: I already have. 
ODO: Who's in charge? 
SISKO: In joint operations like this one, you are. 
ODO: I can live with that arrangement. 
[Laboratory]
SISKO: What have you got, Dax? 
DAX: I'm not exactly sure yet. I finished the sweep of Kajada's ship. No anomalous readings, but I did notice one odd thing. 
SISKO: What's that? 
DAX: Somebody tried to break into the ship's cargo bay. 
SISKO: Since it's been docked? 
DAX: Kira confirmed that there was no damage to the cargo area when they brought it in. 
SISKO: What do you think they were after? 
DAX: This, maybe. I found it in Vantika's personal belongings. 
(She puts a computer chip into a reader) 
SISKO: What is it? 
DAX: A map of the humanoid brain. 
[Quark's cafe]
(Upstairs after hours, as the minions clean downstairs, Quark is on his hands and knees.) 
QUARK: You call this clean? I've already found three coins on the floor up here. Who knows what else there might be? Somebody may have lost some valuable jewellry or something. Fine, never mind. I'll do it myself and I'll keep it myself. Leave! 
(The minions scuttle out) 
QUARK: You just can't find good help any more. 
(A figure in black grabs him from behind and a husky voice speaks.) 
VANTIKA: Have you made the preparations? 
QUARK: Preparations? What preparations? 
VANTIKA: The deuridium shipment. You were to hire mercenaries to help me. 
QUARK: Help you? But. You can't be Vantika. 
VANTIKA: I told you to expect me at this hour. 
QUARK: Yes, and I contacted some very reliable soldiers of fortune in anticipation of your arrival. I was told you were dead. 
VANTIKA: Almost, but not quite. 
(And leaves before we can get a look at him) 
[Infirmary]
KAJADA: You wanted to see me? 
BASHIR: Kajada. I'll be right with you. (to crewman) There. Now remember, next time lift with your back straight and use the anti-gravity generator. I'm sorry. Come in. I have the DNA scan results. I thought you might want to see them. In fact, I tried to call you last night, but you never responded to the comm. 
KAJADA: I have trouble sleeping. Last night was particularly bad I used an alpha wave inducer to help me. 
BASHIR: You should be careful with those. They're only meant for occasional use. 
KAJADA: The scan results, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Oh, yes. There wasn't even a trace of diploid variation. It's definitely not a clone. Positive identification, Rao Vantika. 
KAJADA: They must have overlooked something. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Bashir. 
BASHIR: Yes, Jadzia. 
[Laboratory]
DAX: I need some medical advice. Can you come to my lab? 
BASHIR [OC]: I'll be right there. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: Bashir out. Every conceivable test has been done, Kajada. 
[Laboratory]
DAX: Here's the hypothesis. The body dies, the consciousness lives on. 
BASHIR: In another brain? 
DAX: Possible? 
BASHIR: The closest thing I've encountered is synaptic pattern displacement. But that's never been done by a non-Vulcan. 
DAX: I'm convinced Vantika was working on it. There are over seventy different computer simulations in his file. All involve identifying neural energy patterns and storing them in different areas of the brain. 
BASHIR: There's plenty of room. A humanoid uses only a small portion of the brain. 
DAX: What if another entity shared the unused portion? 
BASHIR: Hypothetically, Vantika's consciousness could be occupying someone else's brain while he waits for the deuridium to arrive. But whose? Kajada? 
DAX: They're both Kobliad. What better place to hide than in the mind of your worst enemy? 
[Commander's office]
SISKO: It doesn't make sense. She's been doing everything she can to convince us that Vantika is alive. If Vantika's controlling her, why would he call attention to himself? 
DAX: We're not suggesting he's controlling her. 
BASHIR: This is all theoretical, but to extend the logic, there's no reason to believe she'd even be aware of his presence. 
DAX: Like a stowaway on a ship. The pilot's at the helm, but someone else is along for the ride. 
SISKO: Would an examination of Kajada confirm any of this? 
BASHIR: We don't know what we're looking for yet. We still have to identify a method of transfer first. 
ODO: I could assign some personnel to maintain continuous surveillance on Kajada. 
PRIMMIN: We're already stretched to the limit preparing for the shipment. Why don't I just set up the computer to track her movements and alert us if she goes near a secured area. 
ODO: At the very least, she has to be left out of our security plans. 
BASHIR: She won't like that. 
SISKO: I'm afraid we have no choice. 
DAX: What do we tell her? 
ODO: Nothing. She'll figure it out. When she does, send her to me. 
[Security office]
KAJADA: The computer security codes have been changed. I've been denied access. Why? 
ODO: Because I ordered it. 
KAJADA: What kind of fool are you? 
ODO: My own special variety. 
KAJADA: I'm the only one here who has experience with Vantika. 
ODO: I'm sorry. I believe it's necessary at this point to limit access to the security files to four people. Myself, Lieutenant Primmin, Major Kira and Commander Sisko. 
KAJADA: When is the shipment scheduled to arrive? 
ODO: I can't give you that information. 
KAJADA: What about this Ferengi, Quark? 
ODO: What about him? 
KAJADA: From what I understand, he has his hands into everything around here. Is he under surveillance? 
ODO: I always keep an eye on him. 
KAJADA: I hope so. Because he's exactly the kind that Vantika would use in his plans. 
[Quark's cafe]
(A secret meeting in the dark) 
QUARK: Everything's been taken care of. 
DURG: That's what you said about Vener Seven. 
QUARK: You should thank me for Vener Seven. You got paid, didn't you? 
DURG: We almost got killed. 
QUARK: A normal risk in your line of work. 
DURG: It's a normal risk when we work for you, that's for certain. So, when do we meet this Kobliad? 
QUARK: When he decides it's appropriate. 
DURG: All right then, a better question. When do we get paid? 
QUARK: When the job is completed of course. 
DURG: Not acceptable. We'll require an advance payment of seventy percent. 
(Kajada is eavesdropping from the top floor) 
QUARK: Durg, wake up. This is Quark you're talking to, remember. 
DURG: All past debts have been settled. 
QUARK: They'll never be settled. You'd still be rotting in a Cardassian jail if I hadn't 
(There's a scream. Kajada is dangling by one hand from a third floor railing, then she falls.) 
[Infirmary]
(Kajada is on a biobed with the life support across her body) 
BASHIR: Can you speak? 
KAJADA: Pushed. Vantika. 
BASHIR: I can't keep her conscious any longer, Commander. If she moves too much, she could suffer permanent paralysis. 
SISKO: Did you see anybody behind her? 
QUARK: I just heard the scream and looked up. she fell from the balcony. What was she doing up there anyway? 
ODO: She had an odd feeling you might be helping someone hijack this deuridium shipment. 
QUARK: I resent the inference. 
ODO: It's not an inference. It's a definite suspicion. 
SISKO: Was anyone else in the bar? 
QUARK: Anyone else? 
SISKO: At the time of the accident. 
QUARK: No, just me. Just tidying up, which if you'll excuse me, I really must finish. 
ODO: Not so fast, Quark. I want to take a look at that third floor before you get rid of all the evidence. 
QUARK: Be my guest, but I'm telling you she was alone up there. And she had no business invading the privacy of a law-abiding member of the community. 
(Quark and Odo leave) 
SISKO: What do you think, Doctor? Could this have been a suicide attempt? 
BASHIR: I haven't noticed any indication of suicidal behaviour, but then, who knows what the effect of sharing one's brain might be? 
SISKO: I'd still like some confirmation of that. 
BASHIR: I'll have to tend to her injuries before I conduct any brain scans, but until we find the transfer method Vantika used, I'm not even sure what to look for. 
SISKO: Computer, location of Lieutenant Dax. 
COMPUTER: Lieutenant Dax is in the stasis room. 
[Stasis room]
(Dax is collecting scrapings from Vantika's fingernails. CSI would be proud) 
SISKO: Find something under his fingernails? 
DAX: Not yet. 
SISKO: What are you looking for? 
DAX: Confirmation of a theory, I hope. I've been asking myself, why would anyone induct a bioelectrical charge into a glial cell? 
SISKO: A question I have always wondered about. 
DAX: Well, it might make sense if you wanted to send a bio-coded message along the glial cells of someone's nervous system all the way to the brain. My guess is that's what Vantika was trying to do. 
SISKO: Using his fingernails? 
DAX: Frankly, I can't think of another way he could have delivered the bio-coded message. He must have used a very weak electrical charge, or the sensors on Kajada's ship would have detected it. Ideally, he would have injected the coded message directly into his victim's skin but there were no hyposprays or needles anywhere on the ship. 
(The virtual positron imaging scan finds something in the scrapings);
DAX: A microscopic generator. 
SISKO: You're suggesting stored his consciousness in that thing? 
DAX: His neural patterns encoded as bioelectrical pulses. He could have placed that device under his nail months ago, just in case he needed an escape route in an emergency. His last resort before death. 
SISKO: Will this show up in Kajada? 
DAX: Now that we know what we're looking for, we should be able to confirm it with a glial scan. 
SISKO: Do it as soon as Bashir stabilises her. Nice work. 
[Pylon corridor]
(A Bajoran deputy and a Starfleet engineer by some circuitry) 
KIRA: Confirm that each distribution amplifier is at one hundred percent efficiency. If there's more than a point-zero three percent fall off, replace it. And that won't mean a thing if any of the power waveguide outlets fail. Double-check them. 
ODO: You'd better make this the last check. We've only got an hour. Where's Primmin? 
KIRA: I thought he was with you. 
ODO: I sent him to help you make the final security sweep of the docking area. 
KIRA: He has not been here all morning. 
[Corridor]
QUARK: I won't be going with you. I'm simply a middleman, a facilitator. 
DURG: A profit monger. 
QUARK: And proud of it. 
DURG: How did you get your hands on a Federation runabout, Quark? 
QUARK: I can't take credit for that. Your employer has somehow managed to arrange security access. 
(Round the corner) 
DURG: When do we meet this employer? 
QUARK: His message said he'd be waiting for us on board. 
(Quark opens the airlock door and sees ) 
QUARK: Oh, er, er, I'm terribly sorry. We seem to have made a wrong turn. We didn't mean to disturb you, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Not at all, gentlemen. I've been expecting you. 
[Infirmary]
DAX: Julian? Computer, location of Doctor Bashir. 
COMPUTER: Doctor Bashir is in the Infirmary. 
(He's left his comm. badge behind) 
[Corridor]
ODO: What the hell are you doing in there? I told you to sweep the docking bay again. 
PRIMMIN: I took a cue from you. 
ODO: From me? 
PRIMMIN: You understood the logic of Vantika's MO when he downloaded the computer memory. Avoid the single file, attack the system. 
ODO: I'm not following. 
PRIMMIN: Vantika has to know that all of our security efforts will be focused on the docking ring. 
ODO: And? 
PRIMMIN: I figured if he holds true to form that's not where he'll try to hurt us. So I ran a diagnostic of all the systems that could shut our whole defence array down. 
ODO: I already did that twice today. 
PRIMMIN: I know. I didn't find anything either. But then I went to the back-up systems and I found a glitch there I couldn't explain. And I tracked it back to the waste reclamation system where no body would ever think to look because it's considered non-essential. And I found this. 
ODO: Another subspace crossover shunt, just like the one Vantika used when he tapped into the computer. 
PRIMMIN: And it's set to feed back into the primary command and control functions. 
ODO: This would have shut us down for close to an hour. 
PRIMMIN: Long enough for him to grab that freighter and warp to who knows where. 
[Ops]
(WHOOSH) 
SISKO: Yes, Major? 
KIRA: The Norkova's just come through the wormhole, requesting permission to dock. 
SISKO: Let's go to security alert yellow. What bay do you have assigned in the plan? 
KIRA: Number eight. 
SISKO: Odo, maintain a visible contingent of security at bay eight but I'm sending the Norkova to the second back-up. Bay twelve. 
PRIMMIN: I'll send additional forces to twelve. 
(Primmin leaves) 
ODO: Commander, your Lieutenant Primmin there just saved us all a lot of problems. Another subspace crossover that would have crippled us long enough for them to escape with your deuridium. 
KIRA: Odo, did you deploy a runabout to escort the Norkova? 
ODO: No. 
KIRA: How come the Rio Grande's going out to meet it. 
SISKO: On screen. 
(Dax enters) 
DAX: Benjamin, Julian's missing. 
SISKO: Missing? 
DAX: His comm. badge was in the Infirmary. I can't find him anywhere. 
SISKO: Computer, who authorised access to Runabout Rio Grande? 
COMPUTER: Authorisation access code four one two one. Doctor Julian Bashir. 
[Norkova Bridge]
(Three human civilian crew, then Durg and Co. beam in and kill them) 
DURG: It's safe. 
(Possessed Bashir beams in) 
BASHIR: Shields up. 
DURG: Done. 
BASHIR: Secure the rest of the ship. Be sure to account for all twelve members of the crew. If they resist, kill them. Enter the new course. 
DURG: Aye. (Bang) The station has locked a tractor beam on us. 
BASHIR: But that's not possible. They should be shut down by now. 
DURG: Well, they're not. They're hailing us. 
BASHIR: Hailing us? Engage engines, full impulse. 
DURG: We're not going anywhere with a tractor beam on us. 
BASHIR: Do it! 
DURG: Full impulse engaged. The tractor beam is holding. 
BASHIR: But they won't be able to pull us in. 
DURG: We can't just sit here and wait. What do you intend to do? 
BASHIR: Open a channel. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: I'm Benjamin Sisko, Commander of DS Nine. 
BASHIR: Rao Vantika is my name. But I assume you know that already. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: I want to speak to Doctor Bashir. 
BASHIR: Unfortunately, he's not available at the moment. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: Is he all right? 
BASHIR: His body is, how do you humans say it? Fit as a fiddle. Looks rather good on me, don't you think? 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: What have you done to his mind, Vantika? 
BASHIR: It was necessary to render him unconscious for the time being. However, I might consider leaving his body and returning him to you. But first you must release your tractor beam. 
SISKO [on viewscreen]: I can't do that. 
BASHIR: If you don't, I'll take this vessel to warp. 
[Ops]
SISKO: The tractor beam would rip apart your ship, and you and everyone on board would be killed. 
BASHIR [on viewscreen]: Exactly. So if you care at all about the welfare of your Doctor, you will release your hold on us. You have one minute to decide. 
(Transmission ends) 
SISKO: Can we get a transporter lock on him? 
PRIMMIN: Negative. Their shields are up. 
SISKO: Suggestions? 
KIRA: A small ship like a runabout might be able to get close enough to overload their shield generators with directed phaser fire. We used to do it to Cardassian freighters all the time. 
ODO: But you'd be risking a hull breach and with all the deuridium on board 
SISKO: He's right. We can't risk releasing deuridium into the system. Every populated area would have to be evacuated. Dax, is there any way to disrupt Vantika's control over Bashir? 
DAX: I have an exact model of Vantika's neural energy patterns. If I can design an electromagnetic pulse to disrupt those patterns, Julian might emerge. We still need a way to get it there. 
SISKO: Could we run it right along the tractor beam at the same frequency as their shields? 
DAX: The pulse would resonate off the shields and create a reflected EM field inside the ship. 
KIRA: He's hailing us. 
DAX: I need some time. 
SISKO: I'll give you as much as I can. On screen. 
BASHIR [on viewscreen]: Have you decided? 
SISKO: If I permit you to leave, what guarantee do I have that you'll return Doctor Bashir? 
BASHIR [on viewscreen]: Oh, you're far too ready to capitulate, Commander. Would you be planning a rescue attempt, perhaps? 
SISKO: I'm only interested in the safety of my doctor. 
BASHIR [on viewscreen]: You insult my intelligence. Prepare to go to warp 
SISKO: You've gone to great lengths to survive, Vantika. I don't think you're ready to kill yourself. 
BASHIR [on viewscreen]: And I don't think you are ready to risk spreading deuridium all over this system. 
(Dax isn't ready yet) 
BASHIR [on viewscreen]: Ready to engage warp engines. 
DURG [on viewscreen]: You must be crazy! I want no part of this. 
[Norkova Bridge]
(Bashir aka Vantika shoots Durg) 
[Ops]
BASHIR [on viewscreen]: No more middlemen, Sisko. No more delays. What's it to be? 
(Dax has nodded) 
SISKO: All right. We're prepared to release the tractor beam. Dax. 
DAX: Ready. 
SISKO: Do it. 
[Norkova Bridge]
(Pulses ripple along the tractor beam, and Vantika/Bashir clutches his head in pain) 
SISKO [OC]: Doctor Bashir! Answer me! Bashir! 
BASHIR: Yes? What? 
SISKO [OC]: Doctor. Lower the shields. 
BASHIR: What? What shields? Where am I? 
SISKO [OC]: I'll explain later. Lower the shields now! 
(As Julian reaches for the control, he is gripped with pain as Vantika strikes back) 
[Ops]
ODO: The shields are down. 
SISKO: Get him out of there. 
PRIMMIN: Energising. 
BASHIR: It's okay. It's (grimace) me. 
(Sisko shoots him.) 
[Stasis room]
DAX: I've programmed this transporter to isolate any glial cells with Vantika's neural patterns and to beam them from Julian into this micro-containment field. Once they're out he should be back to normal. 
(The container starts blinking) 
DAX: I'm only reading human neural patterns. He's clear. 
(Dax gives Bashir a hypo to wake him) 
BASHIR: I have the worst headache. 
[Infirmary]
KAJADA: Doctor Bashir I'm so sorry for all of this. 
BASHIR: I suppose we should have listened to you when you said he was alive. 
KAJADA: There was no way for you to control what he was doing to you. 
BASHIR: I'm afraid I don't remember it. Actually, I feel quite humiliated. 
SISKO: No one blames you, Doctor. 
KAJADA: It wasn't you. It was that. 
(The container) 
DAX: What do you intend to do with it? 
KAJADA: May I assume that you've returned custody of the prisoner to me, Commander Sisko? 
SISKO: The prisoner? What's left of him. 
KAJADA: Good. 
(So she fires at the container, completely vapourising it) 

