Episode Number: 466
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Through The Looking Glass
Through The Looking Glass
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 17 Apr, 1995
[Commander's office]
ODO: I found twenty seven voles in his storeroom. 
QUARK: Vole infestations are not uncommon on this station. If you don't believe me, ask Chief O'Brien. 
ODO: When I came in, he and Morn were painting numbers on the voles' backs. 
QUARK: We were just counting them to see how many we'd caught. 
SISKO: You were getting ready to stage a vole fight. 
QUARK: A vole fight? I'm appalled. Do you really think that was what Morn was up to? 
SISKO: Constable, I want the voles confiscated and removed from the station. 
QUARK: You can't confiscate Morn's voles. They're like his pets. 
SISKO: I'll see if I can get him some goldfish. Now, gentlemen, if you will excuse me, it's late. 
QUARK: Poor Morn. This is going to break his hearts. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Ops is yours, Lieutenant. 
(O'Brien enters in casual clothes.) 
SISKO: You going somewhere, Chief? 
O'BRIEN: Sir, I need to talk to you. It's kind of private. 
ODO: We were just leaving. Come on, let's go break the news to Morn. 
SISKO: Do you want to talk in my office? 
O'BRIEN: Actually, I thought we might go to my place. 
(O'Brien sticks a weapon in Sisko's back.) 
SECURITY: Commander. 
SISKO: Stand down. 
O'BRIEN: Get on the transporter pad. Move. 
(O'Brien runs a device over Dax's console.) 
O'BRIEN: Computer, energise on my command. 
(O'Brien joins Sisko on the pad) 
O'BRIEN: Energise. 
[Raider]
(This is not a standard federation ship.) 
SISKO: Where are we? 
O'BRIEN: I guess you could say we just stepped through the looking glass. 
[Raider - quarters]
O'BRIEN: Sit down. Make yourself comfortable. 
SISKO: Right now I'm not feeling very comfortable. 
(Sisko disarms O'Brien.) 
SISKO: There. That's better. 
O'BRIEN: That was a pretty nice move. 
SISKO: I'm glad you liked it. 
O'BRIEN: Of course, it doesn't change anything. You can't go home unless I reconfigure the transporter, and I'm not about to do that. I guess you've got a lot of questions. 
SISKO: Not as many as you think. 
O'BRIEN: You know where we are? 
SISKO: If I had to guess, I'd say that this is the same parallel universe that two of my crewmembers visited a year ago. 
O'BRIEN: You're quick. Just like our Sisko. That saves me having to give you a history lesson. But I'd better update you on current events. Since your officers left here, we've started a rebellion against the Klingon-Cardassian Alliance. We're fighting for our lives. 
SISKO: I wish you luck, but I don't see what that has to do with me. 
O'BRIEN: It has everything to do with you. You were the leader of the Terran Rebellion. At least, our Benjamin Sisko was. 
SISKO: Was? 
O'BRIEN: Captain Sisko's dead. The Cardassians blew up his ship. 
SISKO: Ah. So you want me to take his place. 
O'BRIEN: Like I said, you're quick. 
SISKO: Well, I've got a better idea. We're going to walk back to the transporter pad and you're going to send me home. 
O'BRIEN: Wait. Hear me out. I'm not asking for a lifetime commitment. All I need is for you to finish the mission Sisko was on when he was killed. 
SISKO: I'm sorry, but you're going to have to find someone else. I don't belong here and I'm not about to interfere with events going on in this universe. 
O'BRIEN: At least let me tell you about the mission. And then if you decide not to help, I'll send you home. There's a Terran scientist working for the Alliance. Our sources tell us she's close to completing a new transpectral sensor array that will allow the Alliance to locate our bases in the Badlands. Without a safe place to hide, the Alliance will be able to track us down and kill us all. 
SISKO: So, you want me to prevent this scientist from finishing her project? 
O'BRIEN: Captain Sisko was convinced he could change her mind, get her to work for us instead. 
SISKO: How did he plan to do that? 
O'BRIEN: She was his wife. 
(O'Brien gives him a picture.) 
SISKO: Jennifer. 
O'BRIEN: You know her? 
SISKO: She was my wife too. But in my universe, she's dead. 
O'BRIEN: Not here she isn't. Not yet, anyway. 
SISKO: What do you mean not yet? 
O'BRIEN: Unless you can persuade Professor Sisko to join our cause, we'll have no choice but to kill her. 
SISKO: Kill her? 
O'BRIEN: We cannot let her finish the sensor array. It'd mean the end of the rebellion. 
SISKO: I can't let her die. Not again. 
O'BRIEN: You're the only one who can save her. 
[Intendant's quarters]
(A scene of decadence with slaves and eunuchs) 
KIRA: Delectable. (to female) And so are you. 
(doorbell) 
KIRA: Enter. 
JENNIFER: Mister Garak said you wanted to see me. 
KIRA: Yes. Come. Join us. 
JENNIFER: If you're wondering when the new sensor array will be finished, the answer is 
KIRA: As soon as possible. I know. 
JENNIFER: Will that be all? I have to get back to work. 
KIRA: I have news of your husband. 
JENNIFER: Nothing you could tell me about Ben would interest me. I haven't even seen him in five years. 
KIRA: I know that. And I hope that will make this easier for you. You see, Benjamin is dead. 
JENNIFER: Can I go now? 
KIRA: You must've loved him very much to be so angry with him. To have become so cold. 
JENNIFER: Were other Terrans killed with him? 
KIRA: A whole ship full. 
JENNIFER: All this killing, it has to stop. 
KIRA: And it will. As soon as you complete your transpectral sensors we'll be able to locate the rebel bases, disarm them and put an end to all this bloodshed. And I will be able to resume pressing the Alliance to become more reasonable to its Terran population. You do believe me, don't you? 
[Raider corridor]
(Sisko is in civilian clothes) 
SISKO: So it's agreed. I help you get Jennifer away from the Alliance, and then you get me home. 
O'BRIEN: You get us Jennifer, you can have anything you want. I just hope you can convince her to leave Terok Nor. 
SISKO: I don't understand what Jennifer's doing helping the Alliance in the first place. I mean, didn't she know that Sisko was leading the Rebellion? 
O'BRIEN: Oh, she knew. The truth is, she and Captain Sisko didn't get along too well. Then again, the captain didn't really get along with anyone. In some ways the rebellion's better off without him. Don't get me wrong, the captain knew how to fight but that's about all he knew. 
(Transporter alcove) 
O'BRIEN: Ready? 
SISKO: You don't look very confident, Chief. 
O'BRIEN: You'd better start calling me Smiley. That's what the Captain called me. 
SISKO: All right, Smiley. 
O'BRIEN: I just wish we had more time to get you ready. I probably haven't told you half of what you need to know. I hope you don't run up against too many surprises. 
SISKO: If I do, I guess I'll just have to improvise. 
[Rebel HQ]
(In the underground complex are familiar faces with mostly different personalities - Tuvok from Voyager for a start, Rom and others) 
BASHIR: I told Sisko he'd never get close to Terok Nor, and I was right. 
ROM: I say we teach the Alliance a lesson. Throw everything we've got at Terok Nor and rip it to pieces. 
TUVOK: I disagree. Following your suggestion would do nothing to enhance our goals and would result in a significant loss of life. 
ROM: That's easy for you to say. Those Cardassian pigs didn't kill your brother. 
TUVOK: We have all suffered losses at the hands of the Alliance. Nonetheless, logic dictates caution in the face of a superior enemy. 
ROM: Logic isn't going to win us our freedom. We have to take action. 
BASHIR: And we will. But this time we do it my way. 
TUVOK: And what do you propose we do? 
BASHIR: We smuggle explosives aboard the station, plant them in her quarters, and detonate them. 
TUVOK: You realise it is highly unlikely that anyone assigned to such a mission would survive. 
BASHIR: I say it's worth the risk. 
SISKO: Does that mean you're volunteering for the job? 
ROM: Captain, you're alive. 
O'BRIEN: Of course he's alive. You can't kill the Captain. He's too ornery. 
SISKO: I hope that doesn't disappoint anyone. 
BASHIR: We're glad you're all right. 
SISKO: I'm sure you are. 
TUVOK: We heard your fighter was destroyed. The Alliance said you were dead. 
SISKO: Just their propaganda machine working overtime. But you know what all that tells me? They're scared. And we're going to give them plenty of reasons to stay scared. 
DAX: Well, well, well. It's about time you came back. 
(Dax kisses Sisko long and hard.) 
DAX: That's to let you know I missed you. 
(She slaps him.) 
DAX: And that's for letting me think you were dead. 
SISKO: I'm glad to see you still care. 
DAX: You coming or not? 
SISKO: I thought you told me I was married. 
O'BRIEN: You are, technically. She's your mistress. 
SISKO: I see what you meant by surprises. 
[Rebel HQ - bedroom]
DAX: I'm really glad you're alive. And I'm going to make you glad you're alive, too. 
(Sisko stops her from undressing him.) 
SISKO: We have a lot of planning to do. 
DAX: It can wait. 
SISKO: I suppose it can at that. 
[Intendant's office]
KIRA: Well these progress reports are unacceptable. Productivity in the ore processing centre is down fifteen percent. You have got to do better. Or are you purposely trying to make me look bad to Sector Command? 
GARAK: Not at all. I've done everything I can think of to motivate the workers. 
KIRA: Such as? 
GARAK: Bribes, torture. I've even given overseers permission to execute any worker not meeting the quota. 
KIRA: I'm sure that pleases the overseers, but it is not getting the job done. Follow me. 
[Ore processing]
KIRA: Lets start with him, him, and her. 
GARAK: And do what? 
KIRA: Execute them. I think you'll find that random and unprovoked executions will keep your entire workforce alert and motivated. 
GARAK: I bow to your brilliance. 
GUARD: Let's go. You too. 
GARAK: Though I do hope your mood improves before we run out of workers. 
KIRA: What does my mood have to do with anything? 
GARAK: If you don't mind my saying, I have noticed a certain amount of ill-humour on your part lately. 
KIRA: I don't know what you're talking about. 
GARAK: As I recall, it began about the time you learned of Captain Sisko's death. 
KIRA: Now why would I be upset by such delightful news? 
GARAK: Well, I was under the impression that you were rather fond of him. 
KIRA: Well then, you were mistaken. 
GARAK: Well I will say this for him. He did had spirit. 
KIRA: Too much spirit can be a dangerous thing. It tends to infect others. 
GARAK: Well that's something we won't have to worry at least. With Sisko's death, and the imminent completion of the transpectral sensor array, the Rebellion is certain to collapse. 
KIRA: You seem very sure of yourself. 
GARAK: I am. 
KIRA: I'll remember that. If the Rebellion continues, I'll know who to blame. 
[Rebel HQ - bedroom]
SISKO: Are you sure these Alliance patrol patterns are accurate? 
DAX: You tell me. You gathered the information. 
SISKO: Hmm? Oh, that's right. 
DAX: Are you okay? You seem a little distracted. 
SISKO: Just thinking. 
DAX: I've been thinking too. You know, we've been fighting against the Alliance for almost a year now. And what has it gotten us? Nothing. Sometimes I think we were better off when we were collecting tribute for the Intendant. 
SISKO: Those days are gone. 
DAX: Maybe, but I'm tired of living like this. The rebellion's a lost cause and we both know it. 
SISKO: Don't you want to see the Terrans gain their freedom? 
DAX: Have you taken a good look at your troops lately? They're nothing but ex-slaves with delusions of grandeur. They'll never overthrow the Alliance. Let's just get a ship and go. Forget all about the rebellion. 
SISKO: I'm not ready to give up just yet. 
DAX: It's not like you're going to have much choice. Once that witch you married finishes her new sensor array, Alliance ships are going to be all over these Badlands. We're going to have no place to hide. 
SISKO: Then I suppose we'll just have to make sure she doesn't finish. 
[Rebel HQ]
SISKO: Trying to reach Terok Nor using small fighters didn't work. But we need to get Jennifer off that station, and we need to get her off there soon. 
BASHIR: We've been meaning to talk to you about that. 
TUVOK: Mister Bashir is not convinced that you can persuade your former mate to join our cause. 
SISKO: I can be very persuasive. 
BASHIR: Look, I don't even know why we're bothering to discuss this. The Cardassians destroyed your ship way before it got even close to Terok Nor. And even if you had made it there, there was no guarantee you could've convinced your wife of anything. 
O'BRIEN: (sotto to Sisko) Hit him. That's what the Captain would do. Go on, hit him. 
BASHIR: Let's face it, Captain, the woman hates you. 
(Sisko knocks Bashir down.) 
SISKO: What my wife thinks of me is no concern of yours. 
DAX: (with weapon) Anyone else want to disagree with the captain? 
SISKO: Put it away, Dax. Go on, put it away. 
BASHIR: No one is questioning your authority, Captain. But we have got to stop her before she finishes that sensor array. 
ROM: And there's only one sure way to do that. 
BASHIR: We have to kill her. 
O'BRIEN: You've been saying that all along. 
BASHIR: Well maybe it's time he listened. 
DAX: Killing her would be a lot easier than trying to get her away from the Alliance. 
O'BRIEN: Easier, but not smarter. If she's that important to the Alliance, think how important she could be to us. We could use a scientist on our side. 
SISKO: You tell them, Smiley. At least someone here is using his brain. 
O'BRIEN: Think about it. Who knows what other weapons the Alliance is developing. Someone like Professor Sisko could counteract anything they come up with. 
SISKO: She's valuable. We need her. All right. Does anyone disagree? Good. Now let's get to work. 
[Intendant's quarters]
(Kira is getting a gentle, sensuous massage.) 
GARAK: Tell the Intendant what you told me. 
ROM: It's about Captain Sisko. 
KIRA: Sisko? 
ROM: He's alive. He was able to get off his ship before it exploded. 
GARAK: I suppose it's possible. 
ROM: It's more than possible. It's true. But I can tell you how to get your hands on him. If you're interested. 
[Raider cockpit]
(O'Brien is scratching behind his ear.) 
SISKO: Don't do that. 
O'BRIEN: I can't help it. It itches. I hope this works. 
SISKO: It'll work. Just stop scratching. 
O'BRIEN: You did pretty good back there. I don't think anyone suspected you weren't Captain Sisko. At least not once you hit Bashir. 
SISKO: But you and I both know that was just a warm up. Jennifer's the one I really have to convince. 
O'BRIEN: I guess seeing her isn't going to be easy for you. How long's it been since your wife died? 
SISKO: Five years. 
O'BRIEN: Well just remember, Jennifer may look like her, but she's not. She's a completely different person. 
SISKO: I'll try to remember that. Do you have any idea what went wrong between her and Captain Sisko? 
O'BRIEN: From what I heard, they never should've been together in the first place. She came from one of the few privileged Terran families, people who cooperated with the Alliance. The captain he fought his way up from the mines. 
SISKO: What is she like, this Jennifer? 
O'BRIEN: I don't know. They'd separated by the time I got to know the captain. What was your Jennifer like? 
SISKO: She was the kindest, most caring person I ever knew. 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't get my hopes up. Hold on. I'm reading a slight energy distortion in subspace. 
SISKO: What are the coordinates? 
O'BRIEN: It's coming from all around us. 
(A Cardassian and a Klingon ship uncloak.) 
O'BRIEN: You know, Captain Sisko would try to fight his way out of this. 
SISKO: Be glad I'm not him. 
[Airlock]
KIRA: Well, if it isn't the notorious Captain Sisko and his friend the Tinkerer. 
(Sisko kisses Kira.) 
SISKO: I'm glad to see you too, Intendant. 
KIRA: Still the same old Benjamin. 
SISKO: You wouldn't have it any other way. 
KIRA: Perhaps not, but I'm still going to kill you. 
SISKO: Maybe, but not right away. 
KIRA: You flatter yourself. 
SISKO: Not unjustly, I hope. 
GARAK: Intendant, please, let me teach him some manners. 
KIRA: All in good time. But first, whatever shall we do about O'Brien? I remember the first time I saw you, Tinkerer. You were fixing something. You were always fixing things, making things better. And everyone loved you for it. Even me. But that just wasn't enough for you, was it. You couldn't be happy, staying here, being loved. You had to lash out and betray everyone who was ever good to you. Why? 
O'BRIEN: I wanted to be free. 
KIRA: Free? You're a Terran. You were born a slave and you'll die a slave. Take him to ore processing. Remind him where he belongs. 
GUARD: Let's go. 
GARAK: What about Sisko? 
SISKO: Take me to the Intendant's quarters. Then she'll decide what to do with me. 
GARAK: Of all the impudent 
KIRA: Do as he says. 
GARAK: Intendant. I demand that this man be 
KIRA: You demand? 
GARAK: But you promised me he'd die. 
KIRA: And he will. When I say, and not a moment before. 
SISKO: Shall we? 
GARAK: After you. 
[Intendant's quarters]
KIRA: I really don't know what to do with you. 
SISKO: I sympathise. It's a difficult decision. But I'm sure you'll come up with something. 
KIRA: The only reason I can think of to keep you alive is to infuriate Garak. 
SISKO: What better reason do you need? 
KIRA: Well, suppose I let you live. What will I get in return? 
SISKO: What do you want? 
KIRA: Your loyalty. That's all I've ever wanted. For you to be at my side, my strong right hand. But I'm afraid I can never trust you again. Which means that I will have to dispose of you eventually. The question is, should it be sooner, or later? 
SISKO: Do I get a vote? 
KIRA: Of course you do. It just doesn't count. No, I've got to think about this. 
SISKO: You will let me know what you decide? 
KIRA: I wouldn't dream of keeping it a secret. 
[Guest quarters]
(Jennifer enters with Garak.) 
SISKO: Jennifer. 
JENNIFER: Hello, Ben. Please leave us. 
GARAK: What, and miss this touching reunion? 
SISKO: You heard her. 
GARAK: If you need anyone to beat him into submission for you, don't hesitate to call me. 
(Garak leaves.) 
JENNIFER: All right, I'm here. What did you want to see me about? 
SISKO: I was hoping we could talk. 
JENNIFER: Really? You never seemed interested in talking to me while we were married. 
SISKO: I made a lot of mistakes back then. 
JENNIFER: Save the apologies, Ben. They're not going to work. You are without a doubt, the most insensitive, self-absorbed, egotistical 
SISKO: You've made your point. 
JENNIFER: I doubt it. You never listened to me before. You were always too busy trying to impress every woman who crossed your path. 
SISKO: Where there really that many? 
JENNIFER: There were enough. And if it wasn't women, then it was that ship of yours. Sometimes I think it was the only thing you ever loved. 
SISKO: Maybe I loved you both. 
JENNIFER: Then why did you leave me to go run and play pirate for the Intendant? 
SISKO: That's a good question. 
JENNIFER: And now this Rebellion of yours. Do you know how many deaths you've caused? How much destruction? 
SISKO: I'm fighting to help free our people. 
JENNIFER: You're fighting because you like to fight, Benjamin. The only thing you've accomplished is to give the Alliance an excuse to treat the Terrans worse than before. I just hope that with your capture, this rebellion can be ended peacefully. 
SISKO: Who said I'd been captured? 
JENNIFER: Oh, I suppose you came here just to see me? 
SISKO: Actually, I came here to rescue you. 
JENNIFER: Rescue me? 
SISKO: That's what I said. 
JENNIFER: I'm not going anywhere with you. 
SISKO: You can't stay here. 
JENNIFER: I have a job to finish. 
SISKO: You mean the sensor array? 
JENNIFER: That's right. 
SISKO: If you finish the array you'll destroy any hope our people have for a better future. I don't think you want that. 
JENNIFER: All I want to do is to put an end to all this fighting. To force the rebels to seek a peaceful settlement with the Alliance. 
SISKO: It's not that simple. The Alliance isn't interested in a peaceful settlement. If we lay down our arms, we'll all be killed. 
JENNIFER: The rebellion is killing people every day. It has to stop. 
SISKO: Not this way. Not while the Terrans are still at the mercy of the Alliance. They're your own people, Jennifer. 
JENNIFER: You have no right to talk to me like that. Since when do you care about what happens to our people? You've never cared about anyone but yourself. 
SISKO: Maybe I've changed in the past few years. 
JENNIFER: How many times have I heard you say that? 
SISKO: I guess I was a pretty lousy husband. 
JENNIFER: You guess? 
SISKO: Look, I know it's too late for an apology. 
JENNIFER: You're right about that. 
SISKO: But for what it's worth, I'm sorry. What is it? 
JENNIFER: For a second, I almost believed you. You know what I wish? I wish I'd never met you. 
SISKO: And I wish things could've been better between us. But this isn't about us. Or is it? Why are you working for the Alliance? Is it because you believe in what they're doing or is it something else? 
JENNIFER: I don't know what you're talking about. 
SISKO: I think the two of us have been fighting each other for so long that you've gotten used to us being on opposite sides. But I'm not the enemy this time, Jennifer. The Alliance is. 
JENNIFER: The Alliance is your enemy, not mine. 
SISKO: That's where you're wrong. Don't you see, you're no different than the slaves working in the ore processing centre. In fact, you may even be worse off. At least they know they're prisoners. 
JENNIFER: What if I am a prisoner? 
SISKO: You don't have to be. Fight back. Come with me. 
JENNIFER: You want me to join the rebellion? 
SISKO: The way I see it, freedom is a lot better than slavery. Think about it. 
(Sisko taps three times behind his ear) 
[Ore processing]
(O'Brien touches behind his ear.) 
O'BRIEN: It took him long enough. 
[Guest quarters]
JENNIFER: What are you doing? 
SISKO: Sending a message. 
JENNIFER: You have a subdermal communicator? 
SISKO: Courtesy of the Ferengi. 
[Ore processing]
(O'Brien sneaks away from the main work, opens a panel and starts adjusting things) 
[Corridor]
(Outside his quarters, Sisko knocks out the first Klingon guard and then shoots the second with a disrupter) 
SISKO: Jennifer, I need an answer. Are you coming with me or not? 
JENNIFER: Do I have a choice? 
SISKO: Of course you do. If you want, you can go back to your quarters and forget we ever spoke. It's up to you. 
JENNIFER: All right. But lets get one thing clear. 
SISKO: What's that? 
JENNIFER: I still hate you. 
SISKO: I know. 
[Ore Processing]
CARDASSIAN: Terran, what are you doing down there? 
O'BRIEN: Re-routing the central ODN processor. The Intendant's orders. 
CARDASSIAN: I don't recall receiving clearance for any repairs. 
(O'Brien knocks him out.) 
O'BRIEN: You don't say? 
(There are bangs, the lights flicker and the doors open. O'Brien grabs the Cardassian's phaser and shoots another guard while the workers take care of another.) 
O'BRIEN: All right, anyone who wants to get out of here, follow me. Come on. 
[Corridor]
JENNIFER: You still haven't told me where we're going. 
SISKO: Airlock seven. There should be a ship waiting there for us. Providing we can get there before the security systems reactivate. 
VOICE [OC]: You two look in there. 
SISKO: Get back. 
(Sisko shoots a Cardassian and they run. Another catches up to them and shoots the bulkhead. They are trapped by a porthole.) 
JENNIFER: Now what? 
SISKO: I'll think of something. 
(Reinforcements arrive.) 
O'BRIEN: Hey! 
(The Cardassians are killed in the crossfire. 
SISKO: Good work, Smiley. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah. The only problem is there's thirty more of them behind us. 
SISKO: Then we'd better get to the airlock. 
O'BRIEN: Come on. 
[Airlock]
(Rom's body is fixed across the airlock) 
JENNIFER: Something tells me that's not part of your plan. 
O'BRIEN: We've got to find another way out of here. 
SISKO: Got any suggestions? 
(Phaser fire around the corner.) 
SISKO: Fall back. 
(A worker gets shot as they retreat.) 
KIRA: That was very clever, Benjamin, having one of your own men betray you so you could get aboard the station. I was completely fooled. Fortunately Mister Garak is somewhat more cynical than I am. 
GARAK: Your Ferengi friend told us of your entire plan, with a little persuasion of course. 
KIRA: I'm afraid there's no escape. Your ship's locked down, your pilot's dead. There's no way out. You might as well surrender. 
O'BRIEN: If we surrender, she'll kill us. 
SISKO: Maybe us, but not Jennifer. 
JENNIFER: What if we offer a trade? I stay here and she lets you live. 
KIRA: Benjamin, you know how I hate to be kept waiting. 
SISKO: I came a long way to get you out of here, and I'm not going to leave without you. What is it? 
JENNIFER: Nothing. 
SISKO: Smiley, how far is the ore processing centre? 
O'BRIEN: Only a couple of levels. 
KIRA: Time's up, Benjamin. Benjamin! 
GARAK: Pursue! 
KIRA: He always has to make things difficult. 
GARAK: It's one of his least endearing qualities. 
[Outside ore processing]
SISKO: Smiley, seal the doors. 
O'BRIEN: Sure. It's easy for you to say. 
(O'Brien dashes forward under fire, pulls the levers and gets back before the doors shut tight) 
[Ore processing]
SISKO: I'm going to get you out of here, I promise. 
JENNIFER: I believe you. 
(Sisko starts working a console.) 
O'BRIEN: I don't know what you're up to, Captain, but there's no way out of this room except through that door. 
SISKO: Don't worry. I know what I'm doing. I just hope your Terok Nor was designed by the same Cardassian that built my Terok Nor. 
[Corridor]
KIRA: Are you sure they're in there? 
(Security nods.) 
KIRA: Good. Then we've got them. Use the manual override to open the doors. 
GARAK: This time, Intendant, I trust you're not going to be so lenient with our dear Mister Sisko. 
KIRA: Don't worry. He's disappointed me for the last time. 
[Ore processing]
(The Alliance forces rush in to no resistance. Sisko, Jennifer and O'Brien are just standing there.) 
KIRA: Jennifer. Oh, I was so worried about you. But you're safe now. In fact, I can assure you that your husband will never annoy you again. 
JENNIFER: Actually, for the first time since I've met him, he's not annoying me. In fact, he's been making a lot of sense. 
KIRA: Well, he can be very persuasive when he wants to be. I suppose this means you won't be finishing the sensor array. 
JENNIFER: I'm a Terran. 
KIRA: Keep her alive. Kill the others. 
SISKO: Oh, I wouldn't. You'd be making a mistake. 
KIRA: The only mistake I made was not executing you in the first place. 
SISKO: You don't know how right you are. I have activated the station's self-destruct sequence. Unless I disarm it, this whole place will blow up in nine minutes. 
(Garak laughs.) 
KIRA: That's impossible. There's no way you could know the station's command access code. 
SISKO: Alpha nine one seven five blue. 
KIRA: Computer, disengage self-destruct sequence. Authorisation Kira alpha nine one seven five blue. 
COMPUTER: Authorisation denied. 
SISKO: I changed it. You have eight minutes and thirty seconds to let us go. Otherwise we all die. 
GARAK: Don't listen to him. He's bluffing. 
KIRA: He's not bluffing. 
GARAK: How do you know? 
KIRA: I know. Give me the new access code and I'll let you go. 
SISKO: I will give you the access code once my friends and I are safely away from the station. Do we have a deal? 
KIRA: This isn't over Benjamin. I'll hunt you down. I swear it. 
SISKO: You're welcome to try. 
[Rebel HQ]
(Jennifer and Dax are sitting together.) 
SISKO: Well, I'm glad to see the two of you are getting along. 
DAX: We have a lot in common. He's all yours. 
(Dax leaves.) 
JENNIFER: Dax tells me you're leaving. 
SISKO: I thought I'd pay the Romulans a visit. See if I can convince them to help us. 
JENNIFER: Then I guess this is goodbye. 
SISKO: Jennifer, there's so much I want to tell you. I just don't know where to start. 
JENNIFER: Why don't you start by telling me what happened to my husband? He's dead, isn't he? 
SISKO: I'm sorry. 
JENNIFER: Don't be. Who are you, really? 
SISKO: It's a long story. But ask Smiley. He can fill you in on the details. 
JENNIFER: He seems like a good man. 
SISKO: He does at that. So, what are you going to do now? 
JENNIFER: Oh, I'm sure Smiley'll find something to keep me busy. You're not really going to visit the Romulans, are you. 
SISKO: The deal was that I get you off the station, and then I go home. 
JENNIFER: Will I see you again? 
SISKO: I don't know. 
JENNIFER: Thank you for rescuing me. 
SISKO: It was my pleasure. 
O'BRIEN: Ready, Captain? 
JENNIFER: You'd better go. 
SISKO: Take me home, Smiley. 

