Episode Number: 529
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Favour The Bold
Favour The Bold
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 27 Oct, 1997
[Bridge]
(Defiant is adrift, and damaged.) 
DAX: Cadet. 
NOG: Continuing to emit distress signals on all frequencies, sir. 
DAX: Chief? 
O'BRIEN: We're still venting plasma. Any ship within a hundred million kilometres will know we're here and that we're not going anywhere. 
NOG: We have company, Captain. Two Dominion ships heading this way, bearing one nine seven mark one three five. 
O'BRIEN: They'll have us in weapons range in twenty two seconds. 
DAX: Shields? 
NOG: Shields at thirty percent. 
DAX: Phaser banks? 
O'BRIEN: The entire weapons array is offline. 
DAX: Now we find something to hold onto. 
(The Jem'Hadar attack.) 
NOG: Shields are down to twenty percent. 
(A Bird of Prey decloaks and KaBOOM!) 
O'BRIEN: Now? 
DAX: Now. Shields up. Engines at full impulse. Power to main phasers. 
O'BRIEN: Target locked. 
DAX: Fire. 
(KaBOOM) 
DAX: Cadet, are there any other Dominion ships out there? 
NOG: None that I can see. 
DAX: This is the Captain speaking. All hands, stand down. Good job, people. 
NOG: We're being hailed by the Rotarran. Commander Worf wants to speak to you. 
DAX: On screen. 
WORF: Well done, Captain. You were a very effective decoy. 
DAX: How about next time we switch roles? That way I can rescue you. 
O'BRIEN: You may have to wait a while, Captain. We've just received orders from Starfleet Command. All ships in this sector are to fall back to Starbase three seven five. 
DAX: Fall back again. 
O'BRIEN: Engage, retreat, engage, retreat. I tell you, that's becoming our favourite tune. 
BASHIR: Well, we'd better think of a new tune fast or the only song we're going to be singing is Hail the Conquering Dominion. 
DAX: I wouldn't start learning those lyrics just yet, Doctor. Worf, we'll see you at Starbase three seven five. 
WORF: I will be waiting. 
DAX: Set a course for these coordinates. Warp seven. 
[Sisko's office]
DAX: I don't know what all you brass hats in Starfleet Command are thinking, but take it from a simple field officer, we're not going to win this war by running away from the enemy. 
SISKO: I know that. 
DAX: Benjamin, troop morale is at an all-time low. Even the Klingons are starting to wonder if we can defeat the Dominion. We need a victory, a big victory, and we need it soon. 
SISKO: I couldn't agree with you more. 
DAX: Then do something about it. 
SISKO: I already have. In fact, I'm presenting a plan to Starfleet Command at oh eight hundred tomorrow. 
DAX: What plan? 
SISKO: We're going to retake Deep Space Nine. 
[Mess hall]
BASHIR: Everything seems to be perfectly normal. I'm sorry, Garak. 
GARAK: Keep looking, Doctor. Whatever Starfleet put in there is very well hidden. 
O'BRIEN: Ridiculous! 
GARAK: That's easy for you to say, Chief. You don't know them as well as I do. These are desperate people. 
DAX: Garak, you're not going to get any of us to believe that Starfleet Intelligence has implanted some kind of neural transponder in your brain to monitor your thoughts. 
GARAK: I would have, if I were them. In fact, when I was conducting interrogations for the Obsidian Order, I did a lot worse. 
BASHIR: I'm sure you did. 
WORF: They're not interrogating you, Mister Garak, they are debriefing. There is a difference. 
GARAK: Not from where I'm sitting. 
DAX: Oh, I'll have a raktajino, Julian. 
BASHIR: And a raktajino. 
O'BRIEN: Look, Garak we are at war with the Dominion. Cardassia is part of the Dominion. You are a Cardassian. And at one time, a fairly important one. Of course Starfleet Intelligence is going to press you for specifics. They need to know everything you know. 
WORF: Any small detail could prove extremely important. 
GARAK: Well, take it from me, it's a lot more fun asking questions than answering them. All things considered, I'd rather be on the Defiant with all of you. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, believe me, you haven't been missing much. 
DAX: Hopefully, all of that's about to change. 
BASHIR: You think Starfleet Command will approve Sisko's plan? 
DAX: We'll find out soon enough. He's in there presenting it now. 
O'BRIEN: Here's to retaking the castle. 
BASHIR: And planting our flag on its battlements once again. 
DAX: You two spent too much time in the holosuites. 
[Sisko's office]
(The wall screen display is Federation task force 17740, centred on DS9.) 
SISKO: By putting together a task force comprised of elements from the Second, Fifth and Ninth fleets, I believe that we can retake Deep Space Nine, the most important piece of real estate in the quadrant. 
SITAK: (Vulcan lady Admiral) Your plan, Captain Sisko, is not without merit. However, I remain sceptical. The Dominion will undoubtedly send a large fleet to stop you. 
SISKO: And it will divert their forces and slow their advance into Federation territory. 
ROSS: As well as leave their flank vulnerable. 
SISKO: Which will give us a chance to be on the offensive for a change. 
COBURN: (human male Admiral) There's one thing that still concerns me. 
SISKO: What's that, Admiral? 
COBURN: Earth. You've left it a very tempting target. 
ROSS: Earth will still be defended by the Third Fleet. 
COBURN: But what if you're wrong, and the Dominion doesn't commit its forces to protect Deep Space Nine? What if instead they launch a full-scale assault on Earth? If we follow the plan you're proposing, we'll never be able to get reinforcements there in time. 
SISKO: The Dominion won't attack Earth. 
SITAK: How can you be sure? 
SISKO: Because Earth isn't the key to the Alpha Quadrant. The wormhole is. And whoever controls Deep Space Nine controls the wormhole. 
[Quark's]
(Quark is reading a PADD) 
QUARK: Unbelievable. Amazing. What nerve. Morn, you do have a problem, but lucky for you the solution is simple. You're a grown man. If you don't want to attend your mother's birthday party, you don't have to. And if she keeps whining about it, just remind her there's a war on and you have things to do. Another ale? 
(But Quark spots Kira walking past and gives Morn his empty glass back.) 
QUARK: Here, it's on the house. 
[Promenade]
QUARK: Major, you ready? 
KIRA: Now? 
QUARK: Right now. 
KIRA: All right, but I don't think it'll do any good. 
[Corridor]
QUARK: I keep telling myself that Odo never meant to have Rom to get arrested. It was all a mistake. Bad timing, bad luck. 
KIRA: I thought that too, at first. 
QUARK: I have known Odo a long time. He's not a collaborator. 
KIRA: Then why is your brother still in a holding cell? 
(They round a corner and speak to the guards.) 
QUARK: We're here to see Odo. 
JEM'HADAR: The Founders are not to be disturbed. 
QUARK: Odo will make an exception for us. 
JEM'HADAR: There are no exceptions. 
KIRA: I'd like to hear that from Odo. 
BAJORAN: I'm sorry, Major, but you're wasting your time. His orders were quite clear. He doesn't want to see anyone. Not until his guest has left. 
KIRA: And how long has his guest been visiting? 
BAJORAN: As far as I know, the female changeling has not left his quarters for three days. 
JEM'HADAR: Step away from the door, Ferengi. 
KIRA: Hey! hey! 
BAJORAN: Perhaps it would be best if you left. My colleague over here takes his duties very seriously. I promise to tell Odo you were here. 
KIRA: Let's go, Quark. 
[Odo's bedroom]
(They are sitting, fully clothed, on either side of the bed.) 
FOUNDER: So, that is how solids experience intimacy. 
ODO: Not all solids. Humans, Bajorans. 
FOUNDER: I really must thank you, Odo. 
ODO: For what? 
FOUNDER: For giving me new insight into the solids. 
ODO: And what have you learned? 
FOUNDER: That what they consider intimacy is only a shadow of what we experience in the Great Link. You don't agree? 
ODO: I didn't say that. 
FOUNDER: You've done this before? 
ODO: Not often. 
FOUNDER: But when you have, you enjoyed it? 
ODO: Yes. 
FOUNDER: And you regret not having experienced it with Major Kira. 
ODO: I'd rather not discuss Major Kira. 
FOUNDER: I don't see why not. When we link, your feelings for her are made very clear. 
ODO: Then why do you insist that we talk about it? 
FOUNDER: Because talking is still very important to you. But one day it won't be. One day, the Link will be all you need. And that day is coming soon. 
ODO: Is it? 
FOUNDER: It's amazing that you have survived this long without it. It's only now, after I've been away from the Great Link myself, that I understand how painful it must have been for you. 
ODO: It hasn't always been easy. 
FOUNDER: Odo, you never have to be alone again. 
ODO: Well, I'd better be going. There's a meeting of the station's Ruling Council. Dukat and Weyoun are expecting me. 
FOUNDER: That meeting was held three days ago. 
ODO: Three days? Three days. How could I have lost track of that much time? 
FOUNDER: Does that bother you? 
ODO: Yes, it does. 
FOUNDER: Well, don't let it. You've been living with the solids' concept of time for too long. Let them worry about their meetings, their schedules, their obligations. None of that has anything to do with you. You are a changeling. You're timeless. As am I. 
(And they start to Link. Again.) 
[Wardroom]
(Weyoun is peering very closely at one of Ziyal's paintings when Kira enters.) 
WEYOUN: You asked to see me, Major? 
KIRA: That's right. I 
WEYOUN: First, tell me something. What do you think of this? 
KIRA: It's one of Ziyal's paintings. 
WEYOUN: I know who the artist is. Her father gave it to me. He claims it won some sort of prize on Cardassia. 
KIRA: Gul Dukat must be very proud. 
WEYOUN: I suppose. Is it any good? 
KIRA: I think so. Why, don't you? 
WEYOUN: I don't know how to judge it. You see, my people lack a sense of aesthetics. 
KIRA: That's too bad. 
WEYOUN: I sometimes think so as well. But if aesthetics were truly important, the Founders would have included it in our genetic makeup. 
KIRA: Or they made a mistake. 
WEYOUN: Gods don't make mistakes. Though sometimes I think it would be nice to be able to carry a tune. So, what can I do for you, Major? 
KIRA: It's about Rom. 
WEYOUN: Oh yes, the Ferengi saboteur. 
KIRA: He has been in a holding cell for over a week. 
WEYOUN: Has it really been that long? 
KIRA: And I was hoping you would consider releasing him. 
WEYOUN: Impossible. You can't release a man and then execute him. It makes no sense. 
KIRA: Execute Rom? 
WEYOUN: He committed an act of terrorism against the Dominion. Not only did he try to interfere with our efforts to take down the minefield, but, as I understand it, he was also the diabolical genius who came up with the idea of self-replicating mines in the first place. I'm afraid there's no getting around it, Major. He must be made an example so that others think twice before they act against us. 
KIRA: He is married to a Bajoran citizen. 
WEYOUN: I'm well aware of that. And I'm willing to believe, for now, his wife is not a co-conspirator. Otherwise, treaty or no treaty, she would share her husband's fate. I'm sorry, Major. The Dominion takes a dim view of terrorism. Your friend must pay the price for his crime. 
KIRA: We'll see what the Bajoran government has to say about that. 
WEYOUN: I'm afraid their pleas will fall on deaf ears. Major. Would this be more aesthetically pleasing if it were blue? 
[Holding cell]
ROM: I'm going to die. 
LEETA: Stop saying that. 
ROM: I didn't say it, he did. 
QUARK: What I said is, they're planning to execute you. It's not the same thing. 
ROM: It is to me. 
LEETA: Rom, we are not going to let them hurt you. Kira has gone to the Bajoran Council of Ministers. She's asking them to lodge an official protest. 
ROM: That's sweet, but I doubt it'll do any good. 
QUARK: And I've talked to Grand Nagus Zek himself and he has offered to buy your freedom from the Dominion. 
ROM: I don't think Weyoun cares much for latinum. I'm a dead man. 
(Leeta starts to whimper.) 
QUARK: Will you stop upsetting Leeta? 
ROM: Sorry. 
QUARK: Besides, you think your big brother will let anything happen to you? 
ROM: What can you do? 
QUARK: I'm not sure. But I'll think of something. No matter what it takes, no matter what I have to do, I'm going to get you out of here. 
LEETA: You do that and I'll work your dabo tables for free. 
QUARK: For how long? 
LEETA: An entire year. 
QUARK: Make it two. 
ROM: Brother! 
QUARK: Shh. (Leeta nods) Isn't your life worth two years? Now, sit tight and trust your older brother. 
ROM: But I don't want you to try to save me. 
LEETA: What are you talking about? They must have done something to his mind. 
QUARK: What mind? 
ROM: I'm serious. Brother, you have more important things to worry about. 
QUARK: The bar's doing fine, but thanks for caring. 
ROM: I'm not talking about the bar. 
LEETA: What could be more important than your life? 
ROM: Destroying the anti-graviton beam to prevent the Dominion from taking down the minefield. You've got to finish what I started. The fate of the entire Alpha Quadrant rests in your hands. Billions and billions of people are counting on you. 
QUARK: Boy, are they going to be disappointed. 
ROM: Brother, you can do this. You have to do this. You will do this. 
QUARK: What happens if I get caught? 
ROM: Then we'll die together. Side by side, heads held high, knowing we did our best. 
LEETA: Oh, Rom. 
QUARK: But I don't want to die. 
ROM: If that's what's written, then that's what's written. Now get going, brother. You have a lot of work to do. 
(Quark leaves and a Jem'Hadar comes in.) 
ROM: So, tell me, Leeta what else is new? Have they fixed the sonic shower in our quarters yet? 
[Replimat]
(Ziyal is working on an etching.) 
KIRA: Ziyal. 
ZIYAL: Nerys. I haven't seen you in weeks. 
KIRA: Do you have a minute? 
ZIYAL: Sit down. 
KIRA: I need you to talk to your father for me. 
ZIYAL: About what? 
KIRA: Rom. 
[Captain's office]
ZIYAL: Father. 
DUKAT: Ah. 
ZIYAL: I need to talk to you. 
DUKAT: Is something wrong, my dear? 
ZIYAL: Nothing that you can't fix. 
DUKAT: Name it. 
ZIYAL: I want you to free Rom. 
DUKAT: You're joking. 
ZIYAL: Not at all. 
DUKAT: I can't free Rom, Ziyal. He's been sentenced to death by the Dominion. 
ZIYAL: You can pardon him. Don't you see, Father, this is your chance to show the Bajoran people, to show Major Kira who you really are. A forgiving, compassionate man. A great man. 
DUKAT: Tell me something, Ziyal. Were you involved in any way with the plans to sabotage this station? 
ZIYAL: No, I wasn't involved. 
DUKAT: You're sure of that? I can't help you unless you tell me the truth. 
ZIYAL: I am telling you the truth. The question is, have you been telling me the truth. 
DUKAT: About what? 
ZIYAL: That the Bajorans are wrong about you. That you regret the horrible things you had to do during the occupation. 
DUKAT: I do regret them, Ziyal. Deeply. 
ZIYAL: Then this is your chance to prove it to everyone, including me. Show us that you're capable of mercy. 
DUKAT: Rom is an enemy of the state, and enemies of the state do not deserve mercy. 
ZIYAL: Spoken like a true Cardassian. 
DUKAT: I am a Cardassian. And so are you. 
ZIYAL: No, I'm not! I could never be like you. 
DUKAT: Ziyal. 
[Quark's]
(Sitting on the spiral staircase.) 
KIRA: You can't trust them. 
QUARK: I trust latinum, and so do they. Five bars will buy me five Nausicaans, a fast ship and very few questions. Breaking Rom out of the holding cell will be child's play compared to the things they're used to doing. 
KIRA: Forget about it, Quark. Freeing your brother's going to take careful, precise planning. It's not the Nausicaan way. They're thugs. They'll come strutting onto the station, look at a Jem'Hadar the wrong way and before you know it there's blood on the Promenade. 
QUARK: Think I can get my money back? 
(They go down to the bar proper.) 
DAMAR: Major, a freighter loaded with Tammeron grain is due within the hour. See to it that Cargo bay five is ready to receive it. 
KIRA: I'll take care of it. I'll have a 
DAMAR: Yes, you will. Now. That attitude of yours, Major, it won't be tolerated forever. 
KIRA: You don't like my attitude, Damar? You're welcome to try to change it. 
(Kira leaves.) 
DAMAR: I don't know what Dukat sees in that woman. 
QUARK: Then you need to get your eyes examined. One kanar. Want me to leave the bottle? 
DAMAR: Maybe I should have you taste it first. Make sure it isn't poisoned. 
QUARK: Poisoning customers is bad for business. 
DAMAR: True. But some people may place a brother's revenge above business. 
QUARK: Not this Ferengi. 
(Quark makes to taste the kanar. Damar takes the glass from him.) 
DAMAR: You're a credit to your race, Quark. Unlike your brother, you've chosen to back the winning side. 
QUARK: All right, are you going to tell me or do you want me to guess? 
DAMAR: Tell you what? 
QUARK: Oh, don't be coy with me. Either someone you don't like has died or your promotion came through. 
DAMAR: It's better than that. 
(Damar looks at a Bajoran, who moves away.) 
DAMAR: It's about the minefield. 
QUARK: What about it? 
DAMAR: It's coming down. 
QUARK: Oh, I've heard that before. 
DAMAR: Remember those field tests I was telling you about? They were successful. We've begun to deactivate the mines. 
QUARK: Well, you've got your work cut out for you. What's it going to take a couple of months? A year? 
DAMAR: One week. 
QUARK: A week? 
DAMAR: That's right. One week, and the Alpha Quadrant is ours. 
[Sisko's office]
SISKO: Gentlemen, this mission cannot succeed without the involvement of the Klingon Defence Forces. 
WORF: We agree, Captain. Chancellor Gowron does not. 
SISKO: Then you will have to change his mind. 
MARTOK: The Chancellor is reluctant to commit such a large fleet to a single engagement. 
WORF: He believes it would leave the Empire vulnerable. 
SISKO: Starfleet Command had the same concerns about Earth. But after careful consideration, they decided it was worth the risk. 
WORF: General, perhaps you should return to Kronos and make your plea in person. The Chancellor has great respect for you. If you cannot persuade him, no one can. 
MARTOK: I will go see Gowron and you will come with me. 
WORF: No. The Chancellor no longer considers me a friend. 
MARTOK: I know. But what could be better? An ally and an enemy both telling him the same thing. He'll have no other choice but to agree. 
SISKO: Gentlemen, I need those ships. 
WORF: And you shall have them. 
[Quark's]
KIRA: A week? Are you sure about that? 
QUARK: That's what he said. Believe me, this was no idle boast. 
KIRA: We have to stop them. 
QUARK: And end up in a holding cell with my brother? No, thanks. If we could only get to Odo, make him see what's going on. Then maybe he could help us. 
KIRA: Forget about Odo. First, we can't get to him. Second, even if we did he wouldn't help us. 
QUARK: Then what we have to do is warn Starfleet. 
KIRA: And how do you suggest we get a message to them? 
QUARK: You're asking me? You're the terrorist, I'm just a bartender. 
JAKE: There you are. From the look on your faces I can see you haven't had much luck getting Rom out of jail. 
QUARK: And the news just keeps getting worse. 
JAKE: It's not all bad. 
KIRA: Trust us, Jake, it is. 
JAKE: Not for me. I'm getting a message out to my Dad. 
KIRA: How? 
JAKE: I'm a reporter. I have my ways. 
KIRA: Come on, Jake, this is no time for games. 
(Jake points at Morn, who is wrapping a present. Probably for his mother.) 
KIRA: Morn? 
JAKE: He's going home for his mother's birthday or something. He has an encrypted message for my Dad in one of her presents. 
(Kira goes over and helps Morn tie the pink ribbon into a bow.) 
[Sisko's office]
(Sisko and Admiral Ross have the ribbon that was on Morn's present.) 
ROSS: Are you sure this is reliable? 
SISKO: I've known the courier for five years. I trust him. 
ROSS: Then we have a problem. According to this, the minefield's coming down in three days. The Ninth Fleet won't be here for at least four. 
SISKO: Then I suggest we go without them. 
ROSS: What about the Klingons? 
SISKO: Looks like we go without them too. We've run out of time, Admiral. 
ROSS: If those Dominion reinforcements come through the wormhole we'll have lost everything. 
SISKO: We take the ships we have, fight our way to Deep Space Nine and destroy that anti-graviton emitter. It's our only hope. 
ROSS: Do it. 
[Wardroom]
(Looking out of the windows, a light blinks.) 
DUKAT: There. 
WEYOUN: Where? 
DUKAT: Over there. That flash of light was the anti-graviton beam hitting a mine. 
WEYOUN: And disabling its replication unit. 
DUKAT: Exactly. Didn't you see it? 
WEYOUN: I'm afraid not. 
DUKAT: For months you've been demanding that I take down those mines and now that it's finally happening, you can't even see it? 
WEYOUN: Weak eyes. 
DUKAT: Excuse me? 
WEYOUN: My people have poor eyesight. It's something we've learned to live with. Jem'Hadar, on the other hand, excellent vision. I suppose they need it more than we do. 
DUKAT: Ah, there's another one. 
WEYOUN: I'll have to take your word for it. 
DUKAT: Once we disable the replication units in all the mines, we can detonate the entire minefield. And I guarantee you, weak eyes or not, that explosion you will see. 
WEYOUN: When will you be ready to proceed? 
DUKAT: Approximately seventy eight hours. Three more days and we can start to bring the Jem'Hadar reinforcements through the wormhole. 
WEYOUN: Excellent. I knew you could do it, Dukat. 
DUKAT: Did you? 
WEYOUN: I never doubted you for a moment. 
(Damar enters.) 
DAMAR: Sir, I have new information on enemy fleet movements. 
DUKAT: Go ahead. 
DAMAR: The Second Fleet has fallen back past the Kotanka System, while the Fifth Fleet has pulled out of the fighting along the Vulcan border. Both fleets have converged here, Starbase three seven five. 
DUKAT: Isn't that where Captain Sisko is stationed? 
DAMAR: He's been made an adjutant to Admiral Ross. 
WEYOUN: Good for him. Now why have those fleets gathered there? 
DAMAR: I'm not sure. 
WEYOUN: You're not sure? Two large enemy fleets break off from the front lines and rendezvous at a starbase and you have no idea why? 
DUKAT: Well, we'll have to find out, won't we? 
WEYOUN: See that you do. 
(Weyoun leaves.) 
DAMAR: He should speak to you with greater respect. 
DUKAT: Some day, I'll let you teach him that lesson. But right now, there's something more pressing I need you to do. It's of a personal nature, a matter of some delicacy. It's about my daughter. 
DAMAR: Ziyal? 
DUKAT: We've had a misunderstanding. I want you to go and convince her to speak with me. 
DAMAR: Sir, I really feel I would be more valuable tracking the enemy fleet. 
DUKAT: I've given you an order, Damar. We're on the verge of a great victory, and when it comes I want my daughter at my side. Is that understood? 
[Cargo bay]
ZIYAL: I really believed my father had changed. That he wanted to be a man of peace. 
KIRA: I think he believes that too, when it suits his purpose. 
ZIYAL: Everything he's ever said to me has been a lie 
KIRA: Not everything. He really does care about you. 
ZIYAL: I don't care. I am not going back to him. You don't believe me, do you? 
KIRA: Right now you're angry and hurt, but that's going to pass. And then you'll have to decide what to do. 
(Damar enters) 
DAMAR: Ziyal, I need to speak to you. 
ZIYAL: You and I have nothing to talk about. 
DAMAR: Maybe not, but you and your father do. He wants to see you. 
ZIYAL: Well I don't want to see him. 
KIRA: You heard her. 
DAMAR: Stay out of this, Major. Ziyal, listen. Your father is a great man, a man of destiny, but he also carries great burdens. He knows our alliance with the Dominion is a dangerous one. If we show any sign of weakness, our allies will turn on us. That's why we must all help him remain strong. So I ask you to be a true daughter of Cardassia and stand beside him. 
ZIYAL: It should be obvious, even to you, Damar, that I am not a true daughter of Cardassia. 
DAMAR: What's obvious to me is that your father should have left you to rot in that Breen prison camp. But he didn't. He took pity on you and it's your duty to repay him. Now come with me. 
KIRA: Let her go. 
DAMAR: And if I don't, what happens then? 
KIRA: I was hoping you'd ask. 
(And she thumps him into oblivion) 
ZIYAL: Did you kill him? 
KIRA: No, but I thought about it. 
ZIYAL: What are you going to do when he wakes up? KIRA: That's up to him. 
[Sisko's office]
ROSS: I just came to wish you luck. 
SISKO: Thank you. My father says you can never have too much good luck. 
ROSS: Your father sounds like a wise man. 
SISKO: And he makes a fierce jambalaya. 
ROSS: What's this? 
SISKO: Ancient Bajoran texts. 
ROSS: The Emissary looks for guidance on the eve of battle. 
SISKO: Guidance, insights, loopholes. I'll take anything I can get. 
ROSS: And what do the Prophets tell you? 
SISKO: That I have a long way to go before I can make any sense of their prophecies. 
ROSS: Maybe when this war is over you can look at them closer. 
SISKO: That would be a change. Spend a week or two down on Bajor. Visit the Dakeen Monastery. 
ROSS: I've never been on Bajor. I hear it's quite nice. 
SISKO: Nice? That hardly describes it at all. There are parts of the Eastern Province that are like Eden itself. Lush green valleys covered in wild flowers that seem to spring up overnight. Hundreds of small, crystal clear ponds interconnected by waterfalls. 
ROSS: All right, all right, I'm convinced. I'm already planning my next R and R down there. You know, it sounds like when your assignment on Deep Space Nine is over and Bajor is welcomed into the Federation, you're going to have a tough time saying goodbye. 
SISKO: I don't plan to say goodbye. I plan to build a house on Bajor. 
ROSS: And what if Starfleet assigns you to a different sector? 
SISKO: I will go wherever they send me, but when I go home, it will be to Bajor. 
[Defiant Corridor]
(Nog is in a proper uniform, Engineering gold.) 
NOG: Chief, I was just coming to see you. Can you believe it? They made me an Ensign. 
O'BRIEN: I hadn't realised things were going so bad. 
NOG: Scary, isn't it? If my classmates at the Academy could only see me now. 
O'BRIEN: They'd be surprised, would they? 
NOG: Amazed is more like it. 
O'BRIEN: What do they know. 
NOG: Anyway, I just want to say thanks for all your help. 
O'BRIEN: My help? 
NOG: I've learned a lot from you and not just about engineering. You've shown me what it takes to be a good soldier. 
O'BRIEN: Don't let that uniform go to your head. You've got a lot to learn yet. And you will. Congratulations, Ensign. Wear it with pride. 
NOG: I intend to, Chief. 
[Bridge]
NOG: Captain on the Bridge. 
DAX: I've kept it warm for you, Ben. 
SISKO: Ensign, alert all ships. We're moving out. 
NOG: Aye, sir. 
[Captain's office]
DUKAT: Our initial intelligence reports have been verified. The Federation fleet is on the move. 
WEYOUN: Do we know their destination? 
DUKAT: Yes. It appears they're headed here. 
WEYOUN: Here? Oh. He knows we're taking down the minefield. Someone must've got a message out. 
DUKAT: So it would seem. 
WEYOUN: No matter. We'll crush them. 
DUKAT: Yes. Yes, we will. But in order to do that, I'm going to have to pull a significant number of our ships off the front lines. 
WEYOUN: Do it. 
(doorbell.) 
DUKAT: Come in. 
(Battered and bruised Damar enters.) 
WEYOUN: Once the minefield comes down we'll have more than enough ships to take their place. 
DUKAT: I understand. One moment, please. 
(Dukat pushes Damar to the far end of the office.) 
DAMAR: I want your permission to arrest Major Kira. 
DUKAT: Kira? What about Ziyal? Did you talk to her? 
DAMAR: She doesn't want to see you. When I insisted, the Major objected. 
DUKAT: What did you do to Ziyal? 
DAMAR: I did nothing to her. 
DUKAT: Then why did the Major attack you? You must have done something, threatened my daughter in some way. Damar, I told you to be tactful. 
WEYOUN: Excuse me. Don't you think resolving family squabbles can wait until after we've won this war? Weak eyes, good ears. 
DUKAT: Yes, of course. You're quite right. 
WEYOUN: Then you're clear on what must be done. 
DUKAT: I'm going to call back enough ships to destroy the Federation fleet and hold this station. 
(Weyoun leaves.) 
DAMAR: The Federation is moving against us? 
DUKAT: That's right. Now I want to know exactly what went on between you and Ziyal. 
[Promenade - upper level]
ODO: It's odd. I've stood here countless times, and yet somehow it all looks different. 
FOUNDER: It's the solids. They look small, don't they? Insignificant. 
ODO: It's not their fault. 
FOUNDER: I'm not placing blame. 
ODO: They're trapped. 
FOUNDER: Confined to a single shape. 
ODO: A single perspective. 
FOUNDER: It's so limiting. 
ODO: I feel sorry for them. 
FOUNDER: They need our guidance, Odo, not our pity. 
ODO: They cherish their freedom. 
FOUNDER: We'll have to break them of that. 
ODO: Break them? 
FOUNDER: In a manner of speaking. Oh, this language of the solids. It's so imprecise. 
ODO: What exactly do you plan to do? 
FOUNDER: The solids are no longer your concern, Odo. What must be done, will be done. It's as simple as that. 
WEYOUN: Forgive me for intruding but I have important news about the war. 
FOUNDER: Why don't you return to your quarters, Odo. I'll join you there shortly. Don't worry. Everything will be fine. I promise. 
(Odo leaves.) 
WEYOUN: I must say, you're doing a wonderful job with Odo. 
FOUNDER: Meaning what? 
WEYOUN: Meaning that he's always posed a potential threat to our plans, but you seem to have neutralised him quite nicely. 
FOUNDER: Neutralise Odo? Is that why you think I'm here? Odo is a changeling. Bringing him home, returning him to the Great Link, means more to us than the Alpha Quadrant itself. Is that clear? 
WEYOUN: I meant no disrespect. 
FOUNDER: Well of course you didn't. You are what you are, a loyal subject of the Dominion. Come, walk with me. You said you had important news. 
[Promenade]
(Downstairs, Odo spots Kira and runs after her. She steps into a turbolift.) 
ODO: Major! 
[Corridor]
ODO: Kira. Kira, wait, please. 
KIRA: I have nothing to say to you. 
ODO: I understand that you're angry. 
KIRA: Oh, you bet I am angry. Do you have any idea what's going on? 
ODO: Yes, somewhat. I've been occupied. 
KIRA: Dukat is bringing down the minefield, the Federation is about to be overrun by Dominion reinforcements and Weyoun has ordered Rom's execution and you have been occupied. 
ODO: This is so difficult to explain. 
KIRA: If you're going to talk me about the Link, don't bother. I'm a solid, remember? I won't understand. 
ODO: Nerys. I'm sorry. 
KIRA: Sorry? That's what you wanted to tell me? You're sorry? 
ODO: Yes. 
KIRA: Well let me tell you something, Odo. We are way, way past sorry. 
[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Sir, incoming message from the Cortez. They're still having trouble stabilising the guidance thrusters on their port nacelle. 
SISKO: Tell them to drop back and make repairs. Bring up the Sarek to take its place. 
O'BRIEN: Will do. 
GARAK: That's the eleventh ship to fall out of formation. 
DAX: Nice of you to keep track, Garak. 
BASHIR: He can't help being negative. It's in his nature. 
GARAK: On the contrary. I always hope for the best. Experience, unfortunately, has taught me to expect the worst. 
O'BRIEN: I'm picking something up. It's a large Dominion fleet bearing zero zero four mark zero zero nine. 
SISKO: How large? 
O'BRIEN: Twelve hundred and fifty four ships. 
BASHIR: They outnumber us two to one. 
GARAK: Now who's being negative. 
SISKO: Ensign, on screen. Maximum magnification. 
NOG: Aye, sir. 
SISKO: To all ships, this is Captain Sisko. Assume attack formation Delta two. There's an old saying, fortune favours the bold. Well, I guess we're about to find out. 
To Be Continued...

