Episode Number: 454
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Meridian
Meridian
Stardate: 48423.2
Original Airdate: 14 Nov, 1994
[Replimat]
(Kira sips her hot drink carefully.) 
ODO: Too hot? 
KIRA: A little. 
ODO: Why don't you specify a lower temperature? 
KIRA: No, no, no. Coffee should be a little too hot to drink right away. 
ODO: Why? 
KIRA: It slows down the experience, gives you time to savour the taste. 
ODO: Ah, yes, taste. 
KIRA: Odo, I know you don't need to eat but did you ever try anyway? 
ODO: Once, not long after I was first able to assume the humanoid form. 
KIRA: And? 
ODO: And since I don't have taste buds, it was very unsatisfying. Not to mention messy. 
KIRA: Messy? 
ODO: I'd rather not talk about it. 
TIRON: Major Kira, how nice to see you again. 
(Everyone say Hi! to 
Jeffrey Combs
under the latex.) 
KIRA: Tiron. 
TIRON: You left Quark's last night just when I was about to buy everyone another round. I was devastated that you didn't say goodbye. We were having such a pleasant conversation. 
KIRA: As I recall, you were the one doing all the talking. 
TIRON: Well in that case you have me at a disadvantage. You know all about me, and I know next to nothing about you. 
ODO: Er, perhaps I should be going. 
KIRA: Oh, no. Stay. This is Tiron, a business associate of Quark's. This is Odo, my lover. 
TIRON: Well, you're a very lucky man. 
KIRA: I'm a lucky woman. 
ODO: Yes, we're both very lucky. 
TIRON: And you make a most interesting couple. So, Mister Odo, what is it that you do? 
ODO: I'm Chief of Security on this station. 
TIRON: Oh. A station this size, it must be a very challenging job. I hope you're well compensated? 
KIRA: Oh, money doesn't matter. All we need is each other. Isn't that right, sweetheart? 
ODO: Yes, sweetheart. 
KIRA: You see? Money isn't everything. 
TIRON: Oh no. But it can buy everything. Well, I'm afraid I must be going. Goodbye. 
(Tiron leaves) 
KIRA: Oh, good riddance. Thank you, Odo. I wish you'd been around last night. I'd better get back to Ops. See you later, sweetheart. 
Commander's log, stardate 48423.2. Despite the continuing threat posed by the Dominion, I've convinced Starfleet that we must continue our exploration of the Gamma Quadrant. 
[Bridge]
BASHIR: I've run a preliminary analysis of our sensor sweeps, and the second planet in the Kylata system is definitely M-class. 
DAX: I wish we'd had time to beam down to the surface and take a closer look. 
O'BRIEN: I'd hate to have run into a Jem'Hadar patrol while we were down there picking flowers. 
SISKO: Fortunately there's no sign of any Dominion activity in this sector. 
BASHIR: Let's hope it stays that way. 
DAX: I'm picking up very unusual gravimetric distortions in the Trialus system. 
SISKO: Any idea what's causing them? 
DAX: It's hard to tell at this range. 
SISKO: Let's take a closer look. 
(Later) 
O'BRIEN: The system's coming into visual range. 
SISKO: On screen. 
DAX: The gravimetric distortions are intensifying but they don't seem to be coming from the star itself. 
O'BRIEN: Where else could they be coming from? There aren't any planets in this system. 
(Shudder, and a planet appears right in front of them.) 
DAX: There are now 
(After the titles) 
DAX: The planet seems to have settled into a stable orbit. 
BASHIR: Where did it come from? 
SISKO: Could the entire planet have been cloaked? 
O'BRIEN: If it was, there should be residual ionization traces but I'm not reading any. 
DAX: Commander, we're being scanned. The beam is coming from a settlement on the southern hemisphere. I'm reading approximately thirty humanoid inhabitants. They seem to be the only humanoids on the planet. 
O'BRIEN: They're hailing us. 
SISKO: Open a channel. I'm Commander Benjamin Sisko of the Federation Starbase Deep Space Nine. 
SELTIN [on viewscreen]: (a woman) I am Seltin Rakal of Meridian. 
SISKO: We were studying this star system when your planet appeared. 
SELTIN [on viewscreen]: I expect it must have come as something of a surprise. 
SISKO: Well, you could say that. It seemed to come out of nowhere. 
SELTIN [on viewscreen]: Not nowhere, Commander, but a dimension that intersects with this one. I could explain more in detail, if you're interested. We were just about to sit down for First Meal. Why don't you join us? 
SISKO: We'd like that. I just need to know your planet is not going to disappear in the middle of dessert. 
SELTIN [on viewscreen]: Don't worry. We'll be here for a while. 
[Village square]
(The small settlement is surrounded by lush forest. Everyone is sitting on the ground around a low horseshoe-shaped table) 
SELTIN: It's good to be together again around this table after so long. What's more, we're fortunate to have visitors to share First Meal with us. 
DERAL: I was admiring your markings. Are they decorative? 
DAX: No. Are yours? 
DERAL: No. If you don't mind my asking, how far down do they go? 
DAX: All the way. 
SELTIN: You're not eating, Commander. 
SISKO: I guess my curiosity is bigger than my appetite. 
SELTIN: I hope we can satisfy both. 
SISKO: Well, you were saying Meridian emerged from a dimension that intersects with this one? 
SELTIN: Yes. You see, our planet has a dual existence. It shifts between this dimension and another. 
DAX: What causes these shifts? 
SELTIN: Well we're not entirely sure. Deral has been studying the phenomenon. 
DERAL: With only limited success, I'm afraid. My theory is that the dimensional shifts are caused by fluctuations in Meridian's quantum matrix. Fluctuations that are somehow triggered by our own sun. 
BASHIR: What's it like, this dimension of yours? 
SELTIN: It's hard to explain. It's without form. We exist as pure consciousness 
SISKO: And Meridian? 
SELTIN: It becomes non-corporeal as well, but when we return to this dimension, everything is just as we left it. The buildings, the trees, even our bodies. 
O'BRIEN: Are you saying that when you return here, it's as if no time has passed? 
SELTIN: We only age when we're in corporeal form. 
BASHIR: Sounds like this other dimension has its advantages. 
DERAL: Yes, but we always look forward to this existence and its many pleasures. Here, let me help you with that. 
(Deral takes the fruit that Dax is trying to get into.) 
DERAL: The trick is to scoop out the pulp and eat the thin layer inside the rind. Here, try some. 
DAX: It's delicious. 
DERAL: Especially if you've been looking forward to it for sixty years. 
DAX: Sixty years? 
O'BRIEN: That's a long time between meals. 
[Quark's]
TIRON: A glass of Andorian ale. 
QUARK: Done so soon? You were barely in the holosuite ten minutes. 
TIRON: There was no reason for me to stay the full hour. 
QUARK: I understand. It's a very effective programme. 
TIRON: On the contrary. I found it quite dull. Boring, boring, boring. 
QUARK: I'm sorry to hear you say that, but if you're asking for a refund, forget it. The contract specifically says that satisfaction is not guaranteed. But for a valued customer such as yourself, I'll make an exception and allow you try a different programme. No extra charge. Let's see. Something a little bit more unique. Oh, I have just the thing. A picnic with the Pleasure Goddess of Rixx. I can even provide real food for a small fee, of course. 
TIRON: I don't like picnics, Quark, and the food here is abominable. 
QUARK: Forget the food. Believe me, you've never had a picnic like this one. 
TIRON: What I want is not in your catalogue. 
QUARK: Well, tell me what it is and I'll order it for you. It may take some time, but if it exists I'll get it. 
TIRON: That's just the point, Quark. The programme I want doesn't exist. Not yet, anyway. 
QUARK: A custom programme? It'll be expensive. 
(Tiron takes a large piece of gold-pressed latinum from his sleeve.) 
QUARK: For that kind of money you can move into a holosuite. Now, what is it you want? 
TIRON: I want Major Kira. 
QUARK: Kira? What are you going to do with Kira in a holosuite? No, don't tell me. I don't want to know. 
TIRON: Can you do it? 
QUARK: It isn't going to be easy. I'd have to get her into the holosuite and record her image, and she hates holosuites. 
TIRON: Spare me the details. Do we have a deal, or do I take my business elsewhere? 
QUARK: Consider it done. Now I'll just keep this 
TIRON: Payment on delivery, and not a moment sooner. Don't disappoint me, Quark. When I walk into that holosuite and I see Kira standing there, I'd better believe it's really her. 
QUARK: Leave it to me. (Tiron leaves) The things I do for money. 
[Village square]
DERAL: Just beyond that forest there's a garden with a small pond. 
DAX: It sounds lovely. 
DERAL: It is. 
DAX: Deral, our scans showed that there are only about thirty of you on this entire planet 
DERAL: There were never many of us. We're the descendants of an expedition that was stranded here millennia ago. 
DAX: And your population hasn't increased since then? 
DERAL: It did for a time, but over the last few centuries our numbers have dwindled. You see, we only reproduce when we're in humanoid form, and our time here keeps growing shorter. In twelve days, Meridian will shift back to its non-corporeal state. 
DAX: And remain there for the next sixty years. 
DERAL: Eventually we will only be here for a matter of minutes. When that happens Meridian will too unstable to successfully shift back to the other dimension. 
DAX: And then what happens? 
DERAL: The planet and all its inhabitants will cease to exist in either dimension. 
(On the other side of the square.) 
SELTIN: We deeply appreciate your offer of help, Commander. 
SISKO: If there is a way to stabilise the dimensional shifts, we'll do everything we can to find it. 
SELTIN: That's all we can ask. 
(Sisko catches a ball.) 
SISKO: Here you go. 
(He throws it to a boy.) 
LITO: Do you want to play vajhaq with us? 
SISKO: Maybe later. 
(Dax and Deral come out of a building.) 
DAX: Deral and I are beaming up to the Defiant. We're going to run a series of helio-seismic scans on Meridian's sun. 
SISKO: I'll join you. 
SELTIN: Good luck. 
[Quark's]
KIRA: Quark, I got a message that Morn wanted to see me. 
QUARK: I'm afraid you just missed him. 
(A waiter shows Quark a PADD.) 
QUARK: Really? So soon? Would you come with me, please. Listen up, everyone! I have wonderful news! It's my pleasure to announce that my one millionth customer just walked through the doors and here she is. Ladies and gentlemen, Major Kira Nerys! 
KIRA: Quark, I don't have time for this. 
(A Bajoran walks past) 
KIRA: Why don't you make him your one millionth customer. 
QUARK: Major, that would be dishonest. 
KIRA: That never stopped you before. 
QUARK: This is a special occasion. An event like this only happens once in a bar owner's lifetime. Let me tell you about your prizes. 
KIRA: You mean I won something? 
QUARK: Of course you won something, it's part of the celebration. 
KIRA: I've never won anything before. 
QUARK: Well, now you have. Congratulations. 
KIRA: Are you really serious about this. 
QUARK: My customers are my livelihood, Major. This is a chance for me to give something back to them. Now, let's see what we have for you. A bottle of Kandora champagne, vintage twenty three sixty eight. That's a very good year. These are good for five free spins at the dabo wheel and last but not least, one free hour in a holosuite with the programme of your choice. 
KIRA: A visit to a holosuite? 
QUARK: Offer good today only. 
KIRA: That's perfect. 
QUARK: Right this way. 
KIRA: It's Ensign Quintana's birthday. He'd love a free trip to the holosuite. 
QUARK: But, Major, what about you? 
KIRA: Oh, you know how I feel about the holosuites, Quark. But thanks for the champagne. 
(And Kira heads for the dabo wheel.) 
[Bridge]
DAX: These are the Defiant's sensor readings from when we first entered this system. Take a look at the spectral scan. 
SISKO: It indicates that your sun was giving off modulated gamma bursts right before Meridian appeared. 
DERAL: My people have no record of that phenomenon. 
SISKO: That's not surprising, since Meridian was in a non-corporeal state when it occurred. 
DAX: Gamma activity would seem to indicate an anomaly in your sun's fusion cycle. 
SISKO: Let's find out for sure. Chief, I want you to send a probe into the sun's corona to scan the core. 
O'BRIEN: It'll take a minute to modify its shield configuration. 
DAX: How do modulated gamma bursts cause a dimensional shift? 
DERAL: Do you always do that when you're concentrating? 
DAX: Do what? 
DERAL: Bite your lower lip. 
DAX: I guess I do. 
O'BRIEN: The probe's ready, Commander. 
SISKO: Target it to these coordinates and launch. 
(Off it goes.) 
O'BRIEN: Shields are holding. 
DAX: It's going to be a while before the probe starts sending back any telemetry. 
DERAL: Well, I'm sure you have things you need to do. 
DAX: Not really. 
DERAL: What a coincidence. Neither do I. 
[Garden]
DERAL: This isn't turning out exactly the way I'd planned. 
DAX: What do you mean? 
DERAL: You've barely said a word since we left the settlement. 
DAX: I don't know if you noticed or not, but Seltin didn't seem too happy to see us leave together. 
DERAL: She'd probably prefer if I was walking with Keshara or Renar. You see, ever since my wife died everyone's been wondering when I was going to find myself another companion. 
DAX: Why haven't you? 
DERAL: I guess I was waiting for the right woman to fall out of the sky. 
DAX: That doesn't happen too often. 
DERAL: It only had to happen once. Don't worry about Seltin. After all, we both know this is just a harmless little walk. 
DAX: Absolutely. 
DERAL: With a brief stop to climb a tree. Come on. Don't tell me that in eight lifetimes you've never climbed a tree? 
DAX: That's how I know I'm afraid of heights. 
DERAL: Well don't worry, I won't let you fall. 
(He helps her up to a branch at head height.) 
DERAL: This is one of my favourite views. 
DAX: It's hard to believe that it might all be gone in two weeks. 
DERAL: I hope not. 
DAX: So do I. 
(Deral leans in for a kiss and Dax wobbles.) 
DAX: We'd better climb down. 
(They walk on to an ornamental lake.) 
DAX: It's as beautiful as you described. 
DERAL: I knew you'd like it. 
(He pulls a bunch of berries from the water.) 
DERAL: Try one. 
DAX: Mmm. It's wonderful. 
DERAL: I knew you'd like that too. 
DAX: You know me pretty well for someone who just met me. 
DERAL: I'm glad you noticed. 
(They sit on the grass.) 
DAX: I can't remember the last time I did this. Stroll through a garden, climb a tree, eat fresh berries by a pond. What comes next? 
(A kiss, as you know full well.) 
DAX: I think I'm starting to remember. 
[Village square]
DAX: How are the calculations coming? 
DERAL: I'm checking them now. They're the same as before. There's nothing to indicate the gamma bursts are causing the quantum fluctuations. 
DAX: Then something else must be triggering the dimensional shifts. Whatever it is, we'll find it. 
(Deral leans in to nuzzle Dax's neck.) 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Dax. 
DAX: Go ahead, Commander. 
SISKO [OC]: Good news. We've been able to get the probe down another thousand kilometres 
[Bridge]
SISKO: Into the sun's corona. 
O'BRIEN: We picked up some additional telemetry. I'll download it to you. 
DAX [OC]: Thank you, Chief. 
SISKO: If all that fresh air and sunshine start getting to you, you're welcome to come back up here to the Defiant. 
[Village square]
DAX: We're managing just fine. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: I'm sure you are. Sisko out. 
[Village square]
DAX: Don't you want to take a look at the new telemetry? 
DERAL: I'd rather sit here and look at you. 
DAX: How about this? We work for a few more hours and then we go back to your room and count each other's spots. 
DERAL: Can I go first? 
DAX: We'll see. 
(Later.) 
DAX: Take a look at the fusion reactants in the core. 
DERAL: They're out of balance. 
DAX: That's right, and the imbalance is building toward a cascade reaction on the quantum level. That's what's triggering the dimensional shifts. 
DERAL: Now if we can stabilise that reaction. 
DAX: We can keep Meridian here longer. 
DERAL: Oh, Jadzia. 
(An embrace.) 
DAX: I've got to get this to Commander Sisko and Chief O'Brien. And then we can count each other's spots. 
[Promenade - upper level]
(Kira and Odo are being filmed from Quark's. Odo can see him and is leaning across his view of Kira.) 
QUARK: Odo, move out of there. You're ruining my shot. 
KIRA: Odo? 
ODO: Oh, Major. Why is Quark trying to take a holo-picture of you? 
KIRA: Looks to me like he's pointing it at both of us. 
ODO: True, but every time I stand in front of you he seems to get very upset. 
(They go across to Quark.) 
[Quark's cafe]
QUARK: Where are you going? Uh-oh 
KIRA: What do you think you're doing, Quark? 
QUARK: Nothing. 
KIRA: Then what's this? 
QUARK: Oh, you mean this holo-imager? I was just recording an image of the Promenade to send home to my mother. 
ODO: Ha! 
KIRA: You're trying to take a holo-scan of me and I want to know why. 
QUARK: Of you? Not at all. You just happened to get in the frame. 
ODO: Ha! 
QUARK: Will you stop doing that? 
ODO: Not until you start telling the truth. 
QUARK: You want the truth? I'll tell you the truth. I was trying to get an image of you for a special holosuite programme I'm designing. 
ODO: Oh, I can just imagine what kind of programme that would be. 
QUARK: I'm sure you can, but you'd be mistaken. The fact is, I'm working on a simulation of the station's Operations Centre. People want to know what goes on up there, and they want to imagine themselves fending off a Cardassian attack, or facing a fleet of Jem'Hadar ships. 
ODO: Naked, I assume. 
QUARK: Isn't there some petty thief you can harass? 
ODO: Just you. 
QUARK: What do you say, Major? Give the public what they want. They're not asking for much. Just the chance to work side-by-side with you. 
KIRA: They want to work with me? Then let them apply to the Bajoran Military Academy. That way I can be sure everyone in Ops will be wearing their uniform. 
QUARK: Is that a no? 
KIRA: Let me put it another way. If I ever catch you pointing a holo-imager at me again, you will end up eating it. 
QUARK: Definitely a no. 
[Garden]
(Deral is by the pond when Dax arrives.) 
DERAL: Jadzia. 
DAX: I've been looking for you. 
DERAL: You've found me. 
DAX: I have. Good news. It's going to work. We'll be able to equalise the time between dimensional shifts. 
DERAL: Oh Jadzia, that's wonderful. Do you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to build a house right here. Nothing extravagant, just big enough for two. 
DAX: Deral, I 
DERAL: I know what you're thinking. You're thinking this man who just met me is talking about building a home for us. I realise you have a life on Deep Space Nine, but now you'll have a place here as well, for when you visit. 
DAX: I won't be able to visit for a while. It's going to take a long time to stabilise the sun's cascade reaction. 
DERAL: How long? Meridian is going to shift in five days. Jadzia? 
DAX: We'll see each other again. 
DERAL: In sixty years. I want you with me now. 
DAX: That's what I want too, but there's nothing we can do. 
DERAL: Yes, there is. I can leave Meridian and go back to the Alpha Quadrant with you. If you'll have me. 
DAX: What do you think? 
[Village square]
SELTIN: Deral, we've been looking for you. Commander Sisko told us the great news. I can't thank you enough for all you've done. 
DAX: I'm glad we were able to help. 
SELTIN: The next time Meridian returns here, we'll have thirty years for our people to get to know each other better. 
DERAL: I need to discuss something with you. 
SELTIN: Of course. I've called a meeting. Now that we have a future again, we need to start planning for it. And you need to make some decisions as well. 
DERAL: That's what I want to talk to you about. 
SELTIN: The person you need to talk to is Keshara. She's not going to wait for you forever, you know. 
DERAL: I was going to speak to her, as well. 
SELTIN: I'm glad. Think of it, Deral. People can start having families again. Eventually we may have to expand the settlement. As you can see, Jadzia, we have a great deal of planning to do. Well, I think Iwe've kept the others waiting long enough. Come, lets get started. 
DAX: You'd better go inside. 
DERAL: I'll meet you back at the ship. 
[Dax's cabin]
BASHIR: You know, the person I feel sorry for is Quark. He always thought that you and he were made for each other. I don't suppose he'll be letting you win at tongo anymore. 
DAX: What are you talking about? He doesn't let me win. 
(Doorbell.) 
DAX: Come in. Deral! 
DERAL: Well, it's done. I told Seltin and the others that I'm leaving Meridian. 
DAX: What did they say? 
DERAL: They asked me not to go. Seltin feels the settlement can't afford to lose anyone. 
DAX: What did you tell her? 
DERAL: I told her I understood her concern, but that I've made up my mind. So what were you two talking about before I interrupted? Not me, I hope? 
BASHIR: Actually, I was just telling Jadzia that she's not as good a tongo player as she thinks she is. 
DERAL: Tongo? 
DAX: It's a game. And I'm very good at it. 
BASHIR: Now we'll find out on Tuesday night. 
DAX: And I want you there to see for yourself. I'm going to clean you and Quark out. 
DERAL: Jadzia, I have to go. 
DAX: But you just got here. 
DERAL: There are some things I need to take care of before we leave Meridian. 
DAX: Do you need any help? 
DERAL: No. I just have to say goodbye to some people. I'll see you later tonight. 
[Quark's]
QUARK: Tiron, I was just thinking about you. 
TIRON: And I was thinking about you, and your reputation as a man who can get anything for a price. 
QUARK: Stop, you're embarrassing me. 
TIRON: I'll embarrass you even more if you don't get me my programme. 
(Quark holds up a rod.) 
QUARK: Not to worry. 
TIRON: Is that it? 
QUARK: No. It's a high-level decryption protocol and I'm going to use it to get the final information I need for your programme. It cost me dearly. 
TIRON: If it works, it's worth whatever price you paid for it. 
QUARK: I was hoping you'd say that. I'll put it on your bill. 
TIRON: Fine. Just get me my programme. I'm leaving in two days. 
QUARK: You'll have it. And I assure you it'll be well worth the wait. I'll stake my reputation on it. 
TIRON: You already have. 
(Tiron leaves.) 
QUARK: Now, where to begin? 
[Security office]
KIRA: You wanted to see me? 
ODO: Yes. Someone has been illegally accessing the station's personnel files. Your file, to be exact. 
KIRA: Mine? 
ODO: They've downloaded your voiceprint, your retinal scan, even your psychiatric profile. I've managed to trace the data-path back to its source. 
KIRA: Well, let me guess. Quark. 
ODO: Was there any doubt? 
KIRA: With all this information he'd have no problem generating a holo-image of me. 
ODO: So, shall I arrest him, or would you prefer to do it yourself? 
KIRA: No. I have a better idea. Can you spare a few hours? I'd like to prepare a little surprise for Quark. 
[Village square]
(Under the night sky, Deral is getting a shoulder massage from Dax.) 
DAX: You see, the key to tongo is to confront when you're sure you're in a better position than the other players. And if your cards match the roll of the dice, then you win. Deral? 
DERAL: Go on, I'm listening. 
DAX: You haven't heard a word I've been saying, have you? 
DERAL: I'm sorry. I just have so much on my mind. 
DAX: You don't want to leave Meridian, do you? 
DERAL: I said I would and I will. 
DAX: I know what you said, but what do you want? 
DERAL: To be with you. 
DAX: But you're worried about your people. 
DERAL There are so few of us, Jadzia, and now that Meridian has a future again, they need me. 
DAX: Then you have to stay. 
DERAL: And lose you? No. 
DAX: What if you didn't have to lose me? What if I stayed here with you? 
DERAL: I wish you could but that's not possible. Your molecular structure wouldn't survive the dimensional shift. 
DAX: We could use the transporter buffer to match my quantum matrix to yours. 
DERAL: But how do you know that's possible? 
DAX: Because I discussed it with Julian after you left my quarters. 
DERAL: Jadzia. Are you sure you're willing to do that? 
DAX: It's the only way we can be together and I don't want to lose you, either. 
[Dax's cabin]
DAX: Come in. Benjamin. I was just finishing up my request to Starfleet for my leave of absence. 
SISKO: I bet this is the first time anyone's ever requested a sixty year leave. 
DAX: You'll be sure that it gets to them? 
SISKO: If you're sure that this is what you really want. 
DAX: What I really want is for you to say you're happy for me. 
SISKO: I guess I just need to know that you have thought this thing through. If Curzon had told me he wanted to go off with some woman he'd just met, I would've tried to talk him out of it too. 
DAX: And you would have been right. He fell in love with someone new every other week. But I'm not Curzon. 
SISKO: No, and I've never seen Jadzia do anything without thinking it through first. I am happy for you. It's just I'm going to miss you, old man. 
DAX: You've been my friend for two lifetimes. I can't imagine what it's going to be like not having you around. Leaving Deep Space Nine is the hardest thing I have ever done but I know it's right. Besides, after eight lifetimes as a humanoid, existing as pure consciousness might be interesting. 
SISKO: Next time we see each other, I'll probably be a great grandfather. 
DAX: Good. Then I can call you old man. 
SISKO: I'll look forward to it. 
[Quark's - outside the holosuite]
QUARK: Now I believe we agreed I'd be paid on delivery. 
TIRON: I haven't seen the merchandise yet. You know, Quark, if this programme is as good as you claim, I might just purchase it from you to use at home. 
QUARK: You have your own holosuite? 
TIRON: Just a little present I bought myself. 
(Tiron enters the holosuite.) 
QUARK: His very own holosuite. It's good to have money. 
[Holosuite]
(Tiron parts the diaphanous curtains to reveal the silhouette of a sleek humanoid female stretching languidly on a bed. He goes through the final curtain and we join his gaze as it goes from foot, leg, body covered in a thin shift until she lifts her head from behind a large cushion. Quark's head!) 
QUARK/KIRA: I've been waiting for you. 
[Quark's]
(Tiron hurtles down the stairs.) 
TIRON: Quark! I will ruin you for this, Quark. 
QUARK: You mean you didn't like the programme? 
TIRON: I don't know how, I don't know when, but I will ruin you. 
(Tiron turns to go, seeing Kira and Odo behind him. He walks between them.) 
QUARK: Wait. What about my money? 
KIRA: Another satisfied customer, Quark? 
[Transporter room]
BASHIR: How do you feel? 
DAX: Pretty good considering, I spent six hours having my molecule's scrambled in the transporter. 
(Dax kisses him on the cheek.) 
BASHIR: I, er, I don't know what to say. 
DAX: That's a first. 
O'BRIEN: According to Deral's calculations, the dimensional shift should occur within the next forty seven minutes. 
DAX: Do you think you'll be done overhauling the station by the next time I see you? 
O'BRIEN: I doubt it. 
DAX: Tell Quark I'll be back to collect the three strips of gold latinum he owes me, with sixty years interest. 
SISKO: Energise. 
[Village square]
DERAL: I was beginning to think you were having second thoughts. 
DAX: No, I was just saying goodbye. 
DERAL: You missed Last Meal. I saved you some of these. 
(The water berries.) 
DAX: Thank you. 
SELTIN: Jadzia, I just wanted you to know how happy we are you've decided to join us. 
DAX: Thank you. 
SELTIN: Everyone's beginning to gather. It's almost time. 
DAX: Is there anything I need to do to prepare? 
DERAL: Not that I can think of. 
DAX: What if I just hold onto you? After all, we're not going to be together again like this for a long time and I was just getting used to this. 
DERAL: We'll still be together, Jadzia, in a way you can't even imagine. 
[Bridge]
(The planet starts to shimmer.) 
O'BRIEN: There she goes. 
BASHIR: Goodbye, Jadzia. 
[Village square]
(The ground shakes.) 
DERAL: Something's wrong. 
[Bridge]
BASHIR: Commander, I'm reading intense seismic activity throughout the planet's crust. 
O'BRIEN: It'd better shift soon, or it's going to tear itself apart. 
[Village square]
(The people and buildings become energy but Dax stays solid.) 
DERAL: Jadzia. 
[Bridge]
O'BRIEN: Picking up some kind of singularity in the planet's quantum matrix. It's interfering with the dimensional shift. 
BASHIR: It's functioning almost like an anchor. 
O'BRIEN: Commander, it's Dax. Her presence there is destabilising the matrix. 
SISKO: Sisko to Dax. 
[Between dimensions]
(But Dax can't breathe.) 
[Bridge]
BASHIR: Get her out of there, Chief. 
[Between dimensions]
(Dax gets beamed out and only space is left where Meridian was.) 
[Dax's cabin]
SISKO: I thought you'd like to know that Meridian shifted normally once we beamed you away. 
DAX: Good. 
SISKO: Jadzia, I'm sorry. 
DAX: Benjamin, don't. There's nothing you can do. I just need some time. 
(Sisko leaves) 
DAX: Just sixty years or so. 

