Episode Number: 505
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Let He Who Is Without Sin
Let He Who Is Without Sin
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 11 Nov1, 1996
[Replimat]
(Breakfast time and love is in the air. Morn brings flowers to a woman and they go off together.) 
ODO: So, what do you think of the O'Brien's plan to name their baby Sean? 
SISKO: Well, I kind of like it. Sean. Has a nice ring to it. 
ODO: Except that in Bajoran, Sean means swamp. 
SISKO: Do the O'Briens know that? 
ODO: I doubt it. 
SISKO: Someone should tell them. 
ODO: I nominate you. 
DAX: Morning. 
ODO: Neck bothering you again? 
DAX: It's just a muscle pull. 
SISKO: What is that, the eighth muscle pull this month? 
ODO: Actually, I believe Commander Dax has been treated for seven muscle pulls, two contusions, and three cracked ribs. The only person who's spent more time in the Infirmary in the past few weeks is Commander Worf. 
SISKO: Isn't there any way the two of you could, er, you know 
DAX: Make love? 
SISKO: Without injuring yourselves? 
DAX: Interspecies romance isn't without it's danger. That's part of the fun. Maybe we'll have better luck on Risa. 
SISKO: Risa? I thought you and Worf were taking your vacation on Earth. 
DAX: That was his suggestion. I changed his mind. 
ODO: From what I hear, Risa makes the Hoobishan Baths look like a monastery. 
SISKO: I hope they have a good hospital. I can't believe you actually convinced Worf to go to a pleasure planet. He must really be loosening up. 
ODO: I hadn't noticed it. 
SISKO: Come to think of it, neither have I. 
DAX: Oh, no, he's still the same old Worf. 
WORF: Prune juice, extra large. 
DAX: See what I mean? Worf. 
WORF: Captain, Constable, Commander. 
SISKO: Dax said you were going to Risa. 
WORF: Did she? 
DAX: It's no secret. 
WORF: Apparently not. 
ODO: You must be looking forward to it. 
WORF: I am looking forward to spending some time alone with Lieutenant Commander Dax. 
DAX: Isn't he sweet? 
WORF: We have much to discuss. 
SISKO: About what? 
WORF: It is a private matter. 
DAX: Worf's upset because I had lunch with Captain Boday. 
ODO: The Gallamite? 
WORF: His skull is transparent. 
DAX: And if you couldn't see his brains, would it make you feel any better? 
WORF: It is not proper for you to have lunch with an ex-lover while we are together. 
DAX: We were just talking. You have to learn to trust me a little more. 
WORF: I do trust you. I do not trust Captain Boday. 
ODO: Well, I can see it's going to be quite a trip. 
SISKO: The two of you have to tell us all about it when you get back. 
WORF: I am sure she will. 
(Sisko and Odo leave.) 
WORF: I do not see why you feel the need to talk about our personal lives to other people. 
DAX: And I don't see why you feel the need to control my every move. And they're not other people. Benjamin and Odo are my friends. 
BASHIR: Jadzia. 
DAX: Hey. 
BASHIR: Worf. We've been looking for you. I've been thinking about this trip you're taking to Risa. 
DAX: He's a friend too. 
LEETA: Julian and I were talking it over and we'd like to come along, if that's all right. 
DAX: Actually, we were hoping to spend some time alone together. 
BASHIR: Oh, you'll have it. 
LEETA: Oh, once we get to Risa, you won't even see us. 
DAX: There's no harm in sharing a runabout. 
WORF: I suppose not. 
LEETA: Oh, thank you so much. I'm going to go pack. 
(Leeta leaves) 
BASHIR: Commander. 
WORF: Do not hug me. 
BASHIR: I promise we will keep out of your hair. 
WORF: Good. Because we have much to discuss. 
[Corridor]
SISKO: I really wish I was going with you. Dax and I had some great times on Risa. Curzon Dax. 
WORF: Curzon. Of course. 
SISKO: Have fun. 
[Airlock]
QUARK: It's about time you got here. The rest of us were ready to leave an hour ago. 
WORF: What is he doing here? 
QUARK: I've always wanted to go to Risa and this seemed like a perfect opportunity. 
LEETA: He wouldn't give me any time off unless we promised to take him with us. 
BASHIR: I hope this isn't going to be a problem. 
QUARK: Why should it be a problem? We're going to have a wonderful time. Now, if you don't mind, Risa awaits. 
LEETA: Sorry. 
WORF: Jadzia. 
DAX: I know, I know. We have much to discuss. 
[Runabout]
LEETA: Let's see. That's a Tarkalean tea for you, a raktajino for you, and an extra large prune juice. 
DAX: Leeta, you're on vacation, not at Quark's. You don't have to serve us. 
LEETA: Oh, it gives me something to do. Space travel's so dull. Have you ever noticed how all the stars look the same? 
QUARK: Excuse me, but I believe I ordered a snail juice, hand-squeezed. 
LEETA: Get it yourself. I'm on vacation. 
QUARK: How much longer until we get there? 
DAX: Another six hours. 
QUARK: Six hours. 
WORF: Tell the Ferengi to return to his cabin. 
QUARK: You call that a cabin? It's a cot and a waste disposal unit. It's so small even I can't stand up in there. Look. I'm developing a slouch. 
WORF: Tell the Ferengi to return to his cabin now. 
DAX: Quark. 
QUARK: What's he going to do? Turn around and take me home? Ruin everyone's vacation? 
WORF: Coming about. Setting course for Deep Space Nine. 
QUARK: Okay, okay, you made your point. I'm going. But first, I have a little present for everyone. 
(Quark hands out horga'hns) 
QUARK: One for you, and one for you, and one for you. (to Worf) And none for you. 
LEETA: What's this? 
BASHIR: It's a horga'hn. A Risian fertility symbol. 
QUARK: Displaying one to the locals indicates you're seeking jamaharon. 
LEETA: What's jamaharon? 
BASHIR: I'll show you later. 
LEETA: Oh. Look, they like each other. 
QUARK: I think I'm going to be sick. All right, I'm going. 
(Quark leaves) 
DAX: Me too. 
WORF: Going? Where? 
DAX: I'm going to change into something more comfortable. You don't think I'm going to beam down to Risa dressed like this, do you? 
LEETA: That's a good idea. 
BASHIR: When in Rome. 
[Risa - lawn]
(Our group beam down to a lush green area in their beachwear, except for Worf who is still in uniform.) 
LEETA: Oh! I can't believe we finally made it. 
BASHIR: Well, enjoy your vacation. 
LEETA: We will. 
(Bashir and Leeta leave.) 
QUARK: Time to test these babies out. Ladies. 
(Quark waves two horga'hn) 
RISIAN 1: You seek jamaharon? 
QUARK: I seek whatever you've got. 
RISIAN 2: All that is ours is yours. 
QUARK: I'll take it. 
(Quark leaves with a woman on each arm.) 
DAX: Aren't you uncomfortable in that uniform? 
WORF: Starfleet uniforms are designed for comfort in even the most extreme environments. 
DAX: Well, you look out of place. I mean, look around you. Isn't it beautiful? 
WORF: It's an artificially created paradise, maintained by the most elaborate weather control system in the Federation. In it's natural state, Risa is nothing more than a rain soaked, geologically unstable jungle. 
DAX: Maybe so, but the only dark cloud I see around here is you. 
WORF: I did not come here to admire the scenery. 
DAX: If you say so. I guess we should just go home. 
(Dax removes her sarong.) 
WORF: Well maybe. I would not be so hasty. 
DAX: I take it the scenery has improved? 
WORF: A few months ago, when I was commanding the Defiant on a scouting mission in the Gamma Quadrant, we encountered a protostar cluster, a swirling mass of colour set against a background of glowing clouds and burning sky. It was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen, until now. 
DAX: I've got to take you on vacation more often. 
ARANDIS: Dax? Is that you? 
DAX: Arandis. I was wondering if you were still here. 
ARANDIS: Not only am I still here, I have been promoted. I'm Chief Facilitator for the entire Temtibi Lagoon. 
DAX: Worf, this is Arandis. 
WORF: A friend of Curzon's. 
DAX: She and Curzon spent a lot of time together on his last trip here. 
ARANDIS: We had a wonderful time together, until I killed him. 
WORF: Killed him? 
ARANDIS: Death by jamaharon. I suppose there are worse ways to go. 
DAX: Trust me, he died happy. 
ARANDIS: He was such a sweet old man. 
WORF: I will take your word for it. 
ARANDIS: It's so good to see you again, Dax. Your new host is very attractive. 
DAX: Thank you. I'd like to think so. You haven't aged a day. 
ARANDIS: Risa's been very kind to me. Come, let me show you around. 
WORF: Maybe later. 
ARANDIS: Of course. All that is ours is yours. 
WORF: Thank you. But we have everything we need. 
(Arandis leaves.) 
DAX: That wasn't very nice. 
WORF: Why? Is there something of hers you want? 
DAX: Arandis was Curzon's lover, not mine. 
WORF: I hope you remember that. 
DAX: You're still angry about Captain Boday. 
WORF: If I am angry, it is because you do not take our relationship seriously. 
DAX: Worf, we just got here. Do we have to start arguing again? 
WORF: If you were a Klingon woman, we would already be married. 
DAX: In case you haven't noticed, I'm not a Klingon woman. 
WORF: That's no excuse. I have been loyal to you, and I expect you to be loyal to me in return. 
DAX: I have been loyal to you, but I'm not going to let you run my life. 
WORF: I'm not trying to run your life. 
DAX: Then I'm going to go have a big glass of icoberry juice. 
WORF: That is a mistake. You are allergic to icoberry juice. It makes your spots itch. 
DAX: But I like the taste. 
WORF: Fine. Have as much icoberry juice as you like. But it is still a mistake. 
DAX: But it is my mistake to make. Now why don't you go up to our room and put on your bathing suit so we can swim in the lagoon. 
WORF: As you wish. 
[Dax and Worf's room]
(Worf is holding up a small pair of gold lame trunks when the doorbell rings.) 
WORF: Enter. 
(A fully dressed man comes in.) 
FULLERTON: I hope I'm not disturbing you, Lieutenant Commander. My name is Pascal Fullerton. I'm the Chairman of the New Essentialists Movement. 
WORF: I'm not familiar with that organisation. 
FULLERTON: We're dedicated to restoring the moral and cultural traditions of the Federation. This is a statement of our principles. But if you'd like to hear more, we're holding a rally later this afternoon. 
WORF: On Risa? 
FULLERTON: What better place? This world revels in the kind of self-indulgence that's eroding the foundations of Federation society. We intend to shut it down. 
[Solarium]
(Worf is still in uniform, and reading the tract) 
DAX: I really wish you'd stop reading that. 
WORF: I would not dismiss Fullerton so quickly. His analysis of recent Federation history is both insightful and disturbing. 
DAX: What's really disturbing is that you're still wearing your uniform. 
WORF: It would not hurt you to read this. 
[Cubicle]
(In a curtained area, Leeta is getting a sonic massage from a handsome man.) 
LEETA: Mmm. The truth is, not everyone can be a dabo girl. First of all, you have to be able to wear the clothes, and believe me, that's not easy. You have to be able to calculate odds in your head very quickly, and most importantly, you need a very supple wrist. Like this. Dabo. 
DAX [OC]: Worf, people have been predicting the end of the Federation since the day it was founded. Trust me, I know. 
(Worf and Dax enter) 
LEETA: Oh, hi. 
DAX: Leeta, what a surprise. 
LEETA: Care to join us? We were just about to take a reyamilk soak. 
DAX: Maybe later. Worf. Worf! 
[Solarium]
WORF: That was not Doctor Bashir. 
DAX: It's none of our business. 
WORF: Are you defending her actions? 
DAX: I am not defending anything, but it's not my business or yours. Now what do you say we go sign out a couple of floaters and take in the sights. 
WORF: I cannot. The Essentialists are having a rally and I plan to attend. 
DAX: You're kidding. You're not kidding. 
[Beach]
(It's quite a crowd, outside near the geodesic dome.) 
DAX: Don't these people have anything better to do? 
WORF: Perhaps you underestimate the power of Fullerton's message. 
DAX: The plot thickens. 
(Julian is kissing a Risian woman.) 
DAX: And you were worried about Julian. 
WORF: Why are he and Leeta not together? 
DAX: I don't know, but don't jump to conclusions. I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation. 
WORF: This place is a bad influence on people. 
ARANDIS: Here for the show? 
WORF: I would not call it a show. 
ARANDIS: Really? I find Mister Fullerton very entertaining. 
DAX: He seems pretty determined to discourage people from coming here. 
ARANDIS: Risa receives millions of visitors every year. And all of them leave happier than when they've arrived. I don't see how one man, no matter how determined, can change that. 
WORF: Kahless fought off an entire army at Three Turn Bridge, and he was only one man. 
ARANDIS: Fullerton and his Essentialists have been here for about a month. And no matter how many speeches he gives, the water's still warm and the wind still smells sweet. But if he's enjoying himself, who are we to discourage him? 
(A group of overdressed puritans arrives.) 
FULLERTON: That's right. Take a good look. I can only imagine what you must think of me. A middle-aged ponderous academic, sweating under the hot Risian suns, wasting his time telling you things you don't want to hear. But you know what I see when I look at you? Children. Pampered, spoiled children. For some reason the citizens of the Federation have come to believe that they are entitled to lives of ease and privilege. 
BASHIR: I may be wrong, but didn't he just insult us? 
FULLERTON: If you want something to eat, you get it from a replicator. If you want amusement, you go to a holosuite. And if you need protection, you call for Starfleet. But someday, someday soon, you're going to have to learn to take care of yourselves. Because if I see you as helpless children, then how do you think the Borg see you? Or the Romulans, or the Klingons or the Dominion? These empires look at the Federation and they see a prize, a prize that we have forgotten how to protect. And if we don't change our ways, they're going to take it from us. 
ARANDIS: Mister Fullerton has quite a flair for the dramatic. 
BASHIR: Does he really believe that? 
DAX: I think he does. 
FULLERTON: The way I see it, we've got two options. We can either turn our backs on childish things and re-embrace the hard work that built the Federation in the first place, or we can lie here napping in the sun, until we wake up with Jem'Hadar guns to our heads. The choice is ours. Heaven help us if we make the wrong one. 
[Solarium]
(Worf, Dax and Bashir are sitting at a low table) 
BASHIR: What are you talking about? Come on, Worf. This sounds like nonsense. 
WORF: I am merely observing that the Klingons never would have attacked if had they not believed the Federation vulnerable. Even now, since the changeling was discovered on the Klingon High Council, most of my people continue to call for war because they think they can win. 
BASHIR: None of this has anything to do with Risa. 
WORF: You cannot be certain of that. 
DAX: All I know is I've spent lifetimes defending the Federation, and I deserve a vacation every now and then. 
LEETA: Julian? Oh, there you are. I am so glad we came here. I'm having the most wonderful time. 
BASHIR: I told you this was just what we needed. Something wrong? 
DAX: It's nothing. 
WORF: The two of you dishonour each other with your actions. 
LEETA: Do you know what he's talking about? 
BASHIR: You mean, we didn't tell you why we came here? We're conducting the Rite of Separation. 
LEETA: It's an old Bajoran custom. When a couple separates, they spend several days celebrating their parting. It's a way to remember all the good times, and to seek out new opportunities. 
BASHIR: A very wise and ancient culture. 
LEETA: You know, Julian, I don't think I've completely gotten you out of my system yet. 
BASHIR: I know exactly what you mean. Excuse us. We have a few details to work out. 
(Leeta and Bashir leave) 
WORF: Terminating a relationship should not be taken so frivolously. 
DAX: Not every relationship has to end like a Klingon opera. 
WORF: Oh, no. no. Just the ones that are important. 
(There's a commotion outside. A group of Essentialists with phaser rifles threaten guests and tear down curtains.) 
BOLIAN: Stay where you are. 
DAX: On three. One, two 
WORF: Wait. 
FULLERTON: That's enough. Well, I hope we've proved our point. 
(Dax snatches the Bolian's weapon.) 
DAX: The power cells are empty. 
FULLERTON: We have no intention of harming anyone. 
DAX: I don't understand. 
FULLERTON: You think you're safe here in this paradise of yours, but you're not. What if we had been Jem'Hadar or Klingons or Romulans. You'd be dead now. Even you Starfleet officers were lulled into a false sense of security. If you could be taken unaware, what chance do the rest of us have? The sad truth is the galaxy is a hostile place. Forget that, even for a moment, and you risk losing everything. Just something for you to think about while you wait for your desserts. 
BOLIAN: Demonstration's over. Move along, move along. 
DAX: As a Starfleet Officer, I have the authority to arrest you for what you just did. 
FULLERTON: But that would be a waste of time. We both know the Risians won't prosecute. They don't have the courage for it. Believe me, I wish they did. Commander Worf, what did you think of our little demonstration? 
WORF: I cannot condone what you have done. 
FULLERTON: Maybe not, but I do think you understand it. 
[Dax and Worf's room]
DAX: I don't know about you, but it's past my bedtime. 
WORF: We need to talk. 
DAX: About the Essentialists? 
WORF: No. About us. 
DAX: Oh, I suppose you have another list of things I'm doing wrong. 
WORF: I did not say you were doing anything wrong. It's just that some of your behaviour 
DAX: What about my behaviour? 
WORF: At times, you are too impulsive. You act without thinking. You have no self-control. 
DAX: And you think I need you to control me? 
WORF: Jadzia, you are my par'Machkai. And that means everything you do reflects on me. 
DAX: I'm sorry if I embarrass you. 
WORF: I just need to know that you take this relationship as seriously as I do. 
DAX: And I just wish you'd relax a little and let yourself enjoy what we have together. Worf, I'm not going to change who I am. 
WORF: Nor am I. 
DAX: Well, at least we agree on something. Why don't we go to bed? 
WORF: You go. I will be there shortly. 
[Solarium]
(Next morning, repairs are almost done.) 
DAX: This place looks a lot better than it did last night. I guess Risians aren't as lethargic as the Essentialists would like everyone to believe. 
ARANDIS: The Essentialists are wrong about many things. What that Mister Fullerton could use is a little jamaharon. No, a lot of jamaharon. 
DAX: I'd buy him a horga'hn myself if I thought held take it. 
ARANDIS: It looks like he's not the only one that could use some cheering up. 
DAX: I've had better vacations. 
ARANDIS: Better than Risa? 
DAX: I've never known a Klingon who had a tougher time enjoying himself. 
ARANDIS: That's no reason for you not to have a good time. Risa is famous for its diversions. 
DAX: I wish it was that simple. 
ARANDIS: It was for Curzon Dax. And I can tell there's more than a little Curzon in you. 
DAX: He loved this planet. 
ARANDIS: And Risa loved him. 
DAX: Why don't I help you clean up? 
ARANDIS: All that is ours is yours. 
[Garden]
(Bashir and Leeta are kneeling in front of each other) 
LEETA: Our paths have grown apart. 
(She drinks from a bowl.) 
BASHIR: What was one is now two. 
(He drinks.) 
LEETA: The time of sharing is over. (breaks the bowl) May the Prophets guide you toward the path of happiness. 
BASHIR: And may they walk with you always. 
(They lean in as if to kiss then turn their faces away at the last moment.) 
QUARK: That's it? 
LEETA: That's it. 
BASHIR: What were you expecting? 
QUARK: I was expecting fireworks. Where's the anger, the vicious name-calling, the irrational accusations? I never would have agreed to be a witness if I knew you were going to be so civil. It's disgusting. 
BASHIR: Personally, I think it was admirable. No incriminations, no hurt feelings. I don't think I've ever felt this good about the end of a relationship. 
LEETA: Oh, I agree. Now I can finally be honest about my feelings. 
BASHIR: What does that mean? 
LEETA: It's just in the past few months I've been thinking a lot about another man. 
QUARK: Let me get this straight. While you were still dating Julian here, you were having fantasies about someone else? 
LEETA: I'd rather not discuss it now. 
BASHIR: Oh, no, no, no, no, no. You brought it up. You might as well tell me who it is. 
QUARK: Yes, do tell. 
LEETA: It's 
QUARK: Me? 
LEETA: Your brother, Rom. 
QUARK: My brother Rom? 
BASHIR: His brother Rom? 
LEETA: He's so cute. And very sexy. 
(Leeta leaves) 
BASHIR: Cute? 
QUARK: Sexy? 
BASHIR + QUARK: Rom? 
QUARK: Here. (horga'hn) You need this more than I do. 
[Solarium]
(Worf finds Dax working with clay, and Arandis has her arm around her.) 
ARANDIS: You just close your eyes and let all the tension drain away. Doesn't the clay feel good? 
DAX: Wonderful. 
ARANDIS: Now pour your emotions into it. Begin to mold it. Feel the texture in your hands. 
DAX: I do. I feel it. I really do. 
ARANDIS: I knew you'd get it. 
WORF: Dax. 
DAX: Worf? 
(Worf walks away.) 
DAX: Worf! 
[Dax and Worf's room]
(Worf picks up the horga'hn and throws it against the wall.) 
[Fullerton's room]
FULLERTON: I'm tired of giving speeches. It's time we took action. 
BOLIAN: We've taken action, the raid on the Solarium. 
FULLERTON: It'll be forgotten by tomorrow. 
(Worf enters) 
FULLERTON: Mister Worf? 
WORF: You want to make people leave Risa. I think I know a way. 
[Dax and Worf's room]
BASHIR: I probably would've reacted the same way Worf did. I know Arandis is Curzon's lover, not yours, but if I'd walked in on the two of you together? Well, trying to figure you out at any given time isn't easy. 
QUARK: I like that about her. 
BASHIR: So do I. It's the reason why I chased after her so long. 
DAX: Would you two please stop talking about me like I'm not here. 
BASHIR: It's also why I stopped chasing after her. You're too much work. 
DAX: Worf is the one who's too much work. 
QUARK: What you need is a Ferengi. 
DAX: Maybe, but what I want is Worf. 
BASHIR: Why? 
DAX: Because he has the courage of a berserker cat and he has the heart of a poet. 
QUARK: And the brain of a pigheaded idiot. 
DAX: Yeah, sometimes. 
(Arandis enters) 
ARANDIS: Jadzia. 
DAX: Any luck? 
ARANDIS: I'm afraid not. None of the staff can find him, but I'm sure he'll turn up. 
QUARK: Well, no sense waiting around here for him. I say we take some floaters up into the hills and go skinny dipping in the hot springs. 
BASHIR: I never thought I'd say this, but I'm with Quark. 
(Flash, bang!) 
DAX: What was that? 
QUARK: Great. Just what we needed. 
(It rains, hard.) 
DAX: I thought it wasn't supposed to rain in this part of Risa. 
ARANDIS: It's not. Something must be wrong with the weather grid. 
[Solarium]
(It's a proper storm, and wet people are gathering.) 
ARANDIS: May I have your attention please. Obviously the weather grid is experiencing some type of malfunction, but I'm sure we'll be able to repair it soon. 
FULLERTON: No, you won't. 
DAX: You're responsible for this. 
FULLERTON: I authorised it, but it was not my idea. 
WORF: It was mine. 
BASHIR: Are you serious? 
DAX: He's serious. Worf, what did you do? Build an uplink so you could take control of the weather grid? 
WORF: The grid has been deactivated. It will take three or four days to restore the system to normal operation. During that time, the inhabitants of Risa and their guests will experience the planet's natural weather cycle. 
ARANDIS: And for most of Risa that means rain, and plenty of it. 
QUARK: But why are you doing this? 
FULLERTON: Because Risa is an illusion created by weather control systems, industrial replicators, seismic regulators. If the Federation is going to survive, we're going to have to stop wasting our time with toys and get back to the essentials. 
(Fullerton and his group leave.) 
ARANDIS: I'm beginning to think there's no hope for that man. Or for you either, Mister Worf. 
(Arandis leaves) 
BASHIR: Commander, with all due respect, are you out of your mind? 
WORF: I think you will find me quite rational. 
QUARK: As rational as Klingons get, anyway. 
DAX: Worf, this is wrong. 
WORF: I disagree. If Federation citizens cannot handle a little bad weather, how will they handle a Dominion invasion? 
(Later, the thunder and lightning continue. Quark comes back inside.) 
QUARK: I have seen drier days on Ferenginar, and we have a hundred and seventy eight different words for rain. Right now it's glebbening out there. And that's bad. 
DAX: If you're so miserable, why don't you take your horga'hn and go find some company. 
QUARK: Have you taken a good look at the Risians lately? They're even more depressed than the guests. 
ARANDIS: I'm trying to organise a game of hoverball. Would either of you like to join us? 
QUARK: In the rain? 
ARANDIS: No, on one of the indoor courts. 
QUARK: Indoor hoverball. That's just wrong. 
DAX: I'll play. 
ARANDIS: Good, that makes one. 
DAX: Having trouble keeping the guests happy? 
ARANDIS: I've never heard so much complaining in my life. 
QUARK: Nobody came here to sit around in the rain. 
ARANDIS: It's not just the weather. People are starting to complain about everything. The rooms, the entertainment, the food. 
DAX: What's wrong with the food? 
ARANDIS: Nothing, as far as I can tell. But the guests say it just doesn't taste right. 
QUARK: It's the humidity. It dampens the food, makes everything mushy. Trust me. There's no word for crisp on Ferenginar. 
ARANDIS: Maybe Mister Fullerton is right. Maybe we have forgotten how to deal with adversity. 
[Fullerton's room]
BOLIAN: According to our figures, the guest population has declined by thirty percent in the last three days. 
WORF And you can be sure the guests that have stayed are taking what you have to say seriously. 
FULLERTON: It's a start. 
WORF: One that you can build on. 
FULLERTON: You're leaving? 
WORF: I have had my fill of Risa. 
FULLERTON: Mister Worf, you've been an inspiration to us all. 
WORF: Good luck. 
FULLERTON: Thank you. 
(Worf leaves.) 
FULLERTON: You still have the uplink to the weather control grid? 
BOLIAN: Right here. 
FULLERTON: By tomorrow, the weather grid will be restored to normal and no one here will remember this ever happened. But I intend to send a message they won't forget. 
[Dax and Worf's room]
DAX: You must be feeling pretty good right now. The weather's terrible, the guests are miserable, and more and more people are leaving Risa every day. 
WORF: Their response only proves my point. 
DAX: Oh, I see. Ruin the vacations of a few hundred thousand people to bolster the moral fibre of the Federation. 
WORF: I do not expect you to understand. 
DAX: I understand even better than you do. What you did had nothing to do with Risa, or the Essentialists, or even the Federation. It's about you and me. 
WORF: You give yourself far too much credit. 
DAX: Do I? You think I'm irresponsible, frivolous. That I care more about pleasure than I do commitment. What do you think is going on between me and Arandis? 
WORF: You know what I think. 
DAX: That's right, I do. And you know what? You're wrong. Did it occur to you to ask me about it? Or trust, just a little? 
WORF: A Klingon woman would not have given me grounds for suspicion. 
DAX: And how would you know? Curzon spent more time with Klingons than you ever did. 
WORF: You may have lived among my people, but you are not a Klingon. I am. 
DAX: Maybe so, but you're not like any other Klingon I've ever met. What happened to you, Worf? You're a paragon of Klingon honour and discipline, but when it comes to the Klingon passion for life, the exuberance, the enjoyment of the moment, you are constantly holding yourself back. Why? 
WORF: That's not the issue here. 
DAX: I think it is. 
WORF: I do not wish to lose you, Jadzia. 
DAX: Then talk to me, please. 
WORF: You know from the age of seven I was raised by humans on the farmworld of Gault? It was a sparsely populated world, no more than twenty thousand inhabitants. It often seemed as though everyone knew everyone else. But one thing was for certain, everyone knew me. I was the Klingon child, the uncontrollable one. I was the biggest, the strongest, most fearless child on the entire planet. I fought hard, played hard, I did as I pleased. 
DAX: What changed? 
WORF: When I was thirteen, I was captain of my school soccer team. We had made the championships, and I was determined to win. Near the end of the second half, with the score tied, my team got a corner kick. The ball sailed up high. Both I and one of my opponents, a human boy named Mikel, leaped up to head the ball. He had position, but I was determined to score. I remember laughing with excitement as I threw myself at him. 
DAX: Go on. 
WORF: The next thing I knew, the ball was sailing into their goal. I roared with triumph and turned around to Mikel to gloat, only to find him lying on the grass bleeding. Our heads had collided when we both went up for the ball. I had not feel the impact, but I had broken his neck, and he died the next day. 
DAX: It was an accident. 
WORF: Which only makes it worse. Compared to Klingons, humans are fragile creatures. I realised at that moment to live among them I must practice restraint. 
DAX: That must have been difficult for you. 
WORF: At first. In time it became part of who I was, who I am. 
DAX: And you're still afraid that if you lose control 
WORF: Someone I care about might get hurt. 
DAX: That explains a lot. But you have to realise there are some things in life you can't control, and one of them is me. But what you can do is trust me. I care about you, Worf, and I would never do anything to hurt you. 
WORF: Nor would I do anything to hurt you. 
DAX: Who knows, I might have more self-control than you give me credit for. 
(Rumble. Ornaments fall off side tables and break.) 
DAX: That felt like an earthquake. So did that. 
WORF: The Essentialists. 
[Fullerton's room]
FULLERTON: You should see them all run. I think they've finally realised that the party's over. Increase the feedback in the tectonic stress regulators. 
BOLIAN: If I do, there won't be a building left standing on this part of Risa. 
(Rumble) 
BOLIAN: It might be a good idea to head to the spaceport. Or at least get out of this room. 
FULLERTON: Very well. I think our work is done here. 
(Worf and Dax enter) 
WORF: The uplink. Give it to me. 
FULLERTON: Mister Worf, I suggest you all get off this planet as soon as possible. I have no wish to see you or your friends harmed. 
DAX: Give us the uplink or the only person who will be harmed is you. 
FULLERTON: I thought you were one of us. 
WORF: Perhaps I was for a time. But I believe the Federation will survive the Dominion, the Borg and people like you. 
(Worf uses the uplink and the shaking stops) 
FULLERTON: Mister Worf, if you walk out of here now, you'll be turning your back on the Federation. Don't you see? Over-indulgence, lack of self-control, they'll destroy everything we hold dear, and you will be responsible. 
WORF: You say that we have to return to traditional Federation values. Well, I agree, but one of those values is trust. It is essential that we remember that. 
FULLERTON: Don't you walk away from me. 
(Fullerton slaps Worf across the face. Worf picks Fullerton up by the lapels.) 
WORF: I will do as I please. 
(And throws him across the room.) 
BOLIAN: Are you all right? 
FULLERTON: Yes, yes. 
WORF: I am on vacation. 
[Beach]
QUARK: Figures. The weather improves the day we leave. 
LEETA: I can't wait to get home. Not that I didn't enjoy myself. 
QUARK: I'd better go find Bashir. He brought a horga'hn down to breakfast and that's the last I saw of him. 
ARANDIS: I hope the two of you enjoyed Risa and will come again. 
WORF: I did not think that I would be welcome. 
ARANDIS: Well, you still have a lot to learn about our people. I never got a chance to say goodbye to Curzon Dax. 
DAX: And you're not saying goodbye to me either. I'll be back. 
ARANDIS: And Risa will be waiting. 
(Arandis leaves) 
DAX: So what do we do now? 
WORF: Now we watch the suns set. 
DAX: I have a better idea. Why don't we go swimming. 
WORF: I didn't bring a bathing suit. 
DAX: I won't tell if you don't. 

