Episode Number: 496
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - To The Death
To The Death
Stardate: 49904.2
Original Airdate: 13 May, 1996
Captain's log, stardate 49904.2. After driving away Breen privateers from the Bajoran colony of Freehaven, we are returning to Deep Space Nine. 
[Mess hall]
DAX: When I was Leela Dax, I went through the same thing. Every night I'd tuck in my son Ahjess, and two hours later he'd crawl into bed with me. I don't think I slept through a night for weeks. 
O'BRIEN: Weeks? Molly's been doing this for two months already. 
DAX: She just needs a little attention. 
BASHIR: Dax is right. I'd say she's jealous. She knows that you and Keiko are going to have a baby soon. 
O'BRIEN: What makes you such an expert on children? 
BASHIR: First in my class in paediatric medicine. 
DAX: I wouldn't sit there if I were you. 
BASHIR: Why? Miles spill something again? 
O'BRIEN: It's Worf's seat. He'll be here in a minute. 
BASHIR: Just because Worf lives on the Defiant full time doesn't give him proprietary rights in the mess hall. 
DAX: No one says it does. He just likes that seat. 
(Worf enters and goes to the replicator.) 
WORF: Prune juice, extra large. 
(Worf turns and walks over to the table, and just stands there.) 
BASHIR: Have a seat, Commander. 
(Bashir moves.) 
WORF: Thank you. 
(And as Worf sits, red alert sounds.) 
SISKO [OC]: All senior staff report to the bridge, immediately. 
[Bridge]
SISKO: You'd better have a look at this. 
(On the viewscreen, DS9 is missing half an upper pylon, and there is debris floating.) 
[Corridor]
(The immediate aftermath of whatever happened.) 
KIRA: (injured arm) Concentrate on the fires in section thirteen. We have to keep them away from the plasma conduits. 
QUARK: Has anyone seen my brother Rom? He told me he was going to be working in one of the upper pylons today. 
KIRA: He's fine. I saw him with one of the damage control teams on level five. 
QUARK: What a relief. Wait till I find him. I'll kill him for scaring me like that. 
ODO: Major, here's a preliminary list of the stolen equipment. 
Bashir, Dax and Sisko arrive on scene.) 
SISKO: Report, Major. 
KIRA: It was a Jem'Hadar strike team. They beamed aboard from a civilian transport, disabled communications and weapons, set off an explosive device in upper pylon three, fought a number of small skirmishes 
(Bashir is doing triage.) 
BASHIR: This one's gone. Spinal fracture and severe trauma to the cranial meninges. 
KIRA: They raided the science lab, the reactor control facility and several cargo bays. 
SISKO: (reads Odo's PADD) Microfusion initiators, photonic amplifiers, EPS power stabilisers. 
KIRA: They were out of here and through the wormhole before we knew what hit us. 
BASHIR: Constable, how many casualties do we have? 
ODO: So far, eighteen confirmed dead, thirty one missing and over a hundred wounded. 
DAX: How long ago did the Jem'Hadar leave? 
KIRA: Forty five minutes at the most. 
DAX: That means their ion trail hasn't decayed yet. We could follow them. 
SISKO: I intend to do more than that. Sisko to Defiant, prepare for departure. 
BASHIR: I'm going to stay here, take care of the wounded. That includes you. 
SISKO: The station's yours, Major. Contact Starfleet. Tell them to get some ships out here just in case this is a diversion. 
KIRA: Understood. 
SISKO: Constable, you're with us. Sisko to Defiant. Three to beam out. 
(Dax, Odo and Sisko are beamed away. The Defiant undocks. WHOOSH.) 
[Bridge]
(Cloaked) 
SISKO: What do you see, Dax? 
DAX: Nothing good. Their ion trail is getting fainter. The Jem'Hadar must be emitting a magneton pulse to cover their tracks. 
SISKO: Keep on them. I want that ship. 
ODO: Frankly, I'm surprised that something like this hasn't happened sooner. Being at the edge of the wormhole makes Deep Space Nine a tempting target. 
SISKO: Sometimes I wish we could have the Defiant standing guard over the station twenty six hours a day. 
WORF: Restricting the Defiant to guard duty would be a serious mistake. 
O'BRIEN: You wouldn't say that if you had family living on the station. 
WORF: Perhaps, but adopting a siege mentality is ultimately self-defeating. 
DAX: I've got something. Bearing oh five seven mark zero zero nine. 
SISKO: Red Alert. On screen. 
(A damaged Jem'Hadar ship.) 
WORF: A Jem'Hadar warship. This can't be the vessel we're looking for. Major Kira said the Jem'Hadar strike team that attacked the station used a transport ship. 
O'BRIEN: Captain, that warship's in pretty bad shape. It looks like someone's been using it for target practice. 
DAX: They're transmitting a broad-band distress signal. 
ODO: It could be a trap. 
SISKO: How many crewmembers aboard? 
DAX: I'm reading seven life signs. 
O'BRIEN: You won't be reading them for long. The reactor's about to go critical. 
SISKO: Chief, have a security detail report to the transporter bay. Odo, Commander Worf, you're with me. 
[Transporter bay]
(Six armed security take up position.) 
SISKO: Transporter protocol five. Sisko to Bridge. Drop cloak. Engage. 
(Six Jem'Hadar come in unarmed.) 
SISKO: Reinstate cloak. If you're looking for your weapons, they were removed in transport. 
OMET'IKLAN: Even without weapons, we're more than a match for you. 
WORF: I would not be so certain of that. 
TOMAN'TORAX: A Klingon. 
VIRAK'KARA: And the traitor. The Founders will be pleased. 
(A Vorta comes through the phalanx carrying a box. Everyone say Hi! to Brunt, er, I mean, 
Jeffrey Combs
.);
WEYOUN: Omet'iklan, control your men. These people saved our lives. 
OMET'IKLAN: And for that we shall take advantage of their mistake. 
WEYOUN: You'll do nothing without my approval. My apologies, Captain. I'm afraid the Jem'Hadar are sadly deficient in the social graces. 
SISKO: Two hours ago, my station was attacked by a Jem'Hadar strike team. 
WEYOUN: I know. They attacked us too. 
ODO: Why would your own people attack you? 
OMET'IKLAN: Tell them nothing. This is not their concern. 
WEYOUN: Your next allowance of white will be in two hours. If you want it on time, you will be quiet and do as you're told. Captain, you and I should talk in private. 
[Mess hall]
SISKO: If you have something to say to me, make it quick. 
WEYOUN: Captain Benjamin Sisko. I feel honoured. Your psychographic profile is required reading for Vorta field supervisors. I probably know things about you you don't know yourself. 
SISKO: If you're trying to impress me, you can forget it. 
WEYOUN: What would you say if I offered to make you absolute ruler of the Federation? No President, no Starfleet Chief of Staff, just you. 
SISKO: I'd say your psychographic profile of me isn't as good as you think. 
WEYOUN: Just doing my job. Trying to build a bridge between the Dominion and a potential ally. After all, wouldn't it be much simpler if the Dominion and the Federation could reach some mutual beneficial understanding without resorting to the unpleasantness of military conflict? 
SISKO: I want to know how to find the Jem'Hadar who attacked my station. If you want to build a bridge, why don't you start there? 
WEYOUN: I can lead you to them. But there's something I need in exchange. 
SISKO: What's that? 
WEYOUN: I want you to help me eliminate them. The Jem'Hadar that attacked your station are renegades. They've turned their back on their oath of allegiance to the Dominion and it's my job to see to it that they're punished. 
SISKO: Why do you need my help? You could send a whole fleet of Jem'Hadar warships after them. 
WEYOUN: I'm afraid we don't have the time. Captain, are you familiar with the 
Iconians
?; 
SISKO: They controlled a vast interstellar empire about two hundred thousand years ago. 
WEYOUN: What's important is how the Iconians controlled that empire. 
SISKO: The Gateways. 
WEYOUN: Exactly. Sophisticated transporters that allowed them to move instantaneously from one planet to another, from one solar system to another, without the use of starships. 
SISKO: What does any of this have to do with me? 
WEYOUN: Dominion scientists recently discovered a Gateway on one of our outlying worlds. We sent a team of scientists to restore it, but their Jem'Hadar guards rebelled and are now trying to complete the Gateway themselves. 
SISKO: These renegade Jem'Hadar stole some equipment from my station. EPS power stabilisers, microfusion initiators, photonic amplifiers. 
WEYOUN: I would say it's very possible they're going to use that equipment to help them complete the Gateway. You understand the nature of our dilemma? 
SISKO: If the Jem'Hadar are able to make the Gateway operational, they'll become virtually invincible. 
WEYOUN: Our experts predict the renegades would gather support from other Jem'Hadar units, launch a general insurrection, and effect a complete takeover of the Dominion in less than a year. 
SISKO: None of which is my problem. 
WEYOUN: That's very shortsighted of you, Captain. Think about it. If the Jem'Hadar seize control of the Dominion, there'll be no stopping them. Even shutting down the wormhole won't protect the Alpha Quadrant. With the Gateway, they could put a million Jem'Hadar warriors on any Federation planet instantaneously. Would you care to see our projections of Federation casualties? 
SISKO: Couldn't the Founders just order them to surrender? From what I know, the Jem'Hadar have been genetically conditioned to obey them. 
WEYOUN: The Founders' ability to control the Jem'Hadar has been somewhat overstated. Otherwise we never would have had to addict them to the white. 
SISKO: Sounds like the Dominion isn't quite as stable as you'd like us to believe. 
WEYOUN: The Dominion has endured for two thousand years, and will continue to endure long after the Federation has crumbled into dust. But we'll leave that to history. Right now, we have a more pressing concern. The Gateway must be destroyed. Agreed? 
SISKO: Agreed. 
[Bridge]
DAX: Let me get this straight. We're going to work with the Jem'Hadar to fight the Jem'Hadar. 
SISKO: I don't relish this idea either, but we don't have much of a choice. 
WORF: I was on the mission that discovered the Iconian homeworld. We were forced to destroy the Gateway we found there rather than let it fall into the hands of the Romulans, and Starfleet Command supported our decision. 
DAX: If they didn't want the Romulans to get a hold of it, I'm sure they won't want the Jem'Hadar to have it either. 
O'BRIEN: What are we supposed to do? Give Omet'iklan and his men their weapons back and then hope they don't point them at us? 
SISKO: They're not going to get their hands on any weapons until we reach our target. 
ODO: How do we know these Jem'Hadar can be trusted? They must realise that controlling the Gateway would mean freedom for their people. 
SISKO: According to Weyoun, they don't know anything about the Gateway. They think that this is just a routine search and destroy mission. Find the renegade Jem'Hadar, eliminate them and their base. 
WORF: You're asking us to lie to them about our mission. It is not honourable. 
O'BRIEN: There's a lot of things about this mission that bother me, but lying to the Jem'Hadar is not on top of my list. 
ODO: If the Jem'Hadar find out that we've deceived them. 
SISKO: They're not going to find out anything. 
DAX: Well, they won't hear it from me. 
SISKO: There'll be a joint briefing session at nineteen hundred hours. 
O'BRIEN: Followed by a get-to-know-you buffet at nineteen thirty. 
DAX: And I forgot my dress uniform. 
[Sisko's cabin]
SISKO: Enter. 
OMET'IKLAN: You requested my presence. 
SISKO: It seems we're going to be working together. 
OMET'IKLAN: So I am told. Luckily for you, the only thing I despise more than the Federation is a Jem'Hadar soldier who breaks his vow of allegiance. 
SISKO: I'm glad you see it that way. Now, I have a few things I want to make clear. First, this is my ship and my command. which means I give the orders, not you and not Weyoun. What's more, I'm holding you personally responsible for the actions of your men. If I have a problem with them, you're the one who's going to have to answer for it. 
OMET'IKLAN: That's as it should be. After all, I'm the First. 
SISKO: As far as I'm concerned, on this mission, I'm the First. 
They lock eyes, and neither blinks.) 
OMET'IKLAN: Until the traitors are found and terminated. After that, we shall see. Am I dismissed? 
SISKO: For the time being. 
[Mess hall]
SISKO: According to Dominion intelligence, the Jem'Hadar have established a base camp here. 
(Sisko points to the wall monitor, tactical scan O-47 or D-47, I can't quite make it out.) 
SISKO: The interior of the structure is riddled with a network of corridors and interlocking chambers. 
SISKO: our primary objective is to destroy the Jem'Hadar arms and supply cache in this chamber. The trick will be getting there. We can't beam directly into the structure, which means we'll have to fight our way in. 
OMET'IKLAN: Jem'Hadar tactics dictate at least twenty seven soldiers are stationed inside the base camp at all times. Nine will patrol the perimeter. Additional troops are deployed throughout the city. 
WORF: How many renegades are there all together? 
OMET'IKLAN: A hundred and sixty two in the original garrison. We killed at least twelve during the initial rebellion. 
O'BRIEN: That still leaves a hundred and fifty. 
DAX: Just between you and me, Captain, I think we're a little outnumbered. 
O'BRIEN: Wouldn't it be simpler to take out the base from orbit? A couple of quantum torpedoes should be enough to level the entire area. 
SISKO: Unfortunately, that's not an option. 
WEYOUN: The central structure is composed of solid neutronium. Even a direct hit from a quantum torpedo wouldn't necessarily destroy our objective. 
SISKO: Which means we have to go in ourselves. 
TOMAN'TORAX: As it should be. It is our duty to punish those who would break their vow of loyalty. 
ODO: Are you accusing me of something? 
OMET'IKLAN: It is not for us to accuse a god of betraying heaven. The gods themselves will sit in judgement over you. 
ODO: I'm no god, and neither are the Founders. The sooner you realise that, the better off you'll be. 
SISKO: We've chosen a beam-in site here, in this wooded area. That'll give us a chance to evaluate the situation before proceeding. Our first objective will be to secure the main entrance to the ziggurat. 
WORF: Neutralising nine guards before one of them can raise an alarm will be difficult. 
VIRAK'KARA: It's as you said. The Klingon will to fight pales in comparison to our own. 
TOMAN'TORAX: Yes. He has the look of a warrior but the heart of a coward. 
WORF: If you would like to test my courage, I 
SISKO: All right, that's enough. 
TOMAN'TORAX: One day the Klingon Empire will fall before the Jem'Hadar. And when that day comes, and piles of Klingons lie dead at my feet, I will think of you standing here impotent and weak, and I will laugh. 
(Worf grabs the Jem'Hadar around the neck while Toman'torax grabs Worf's throat.) 
SISKO: All right! I said that's enough. Worf, let him go! 
OMET'IKLAN: Second! Release the Klingon or I will kill you where you stand. 
(They let go of each other.) 
SISKO: Now, the two of you, as you were. I promise, you'll both have more fight than you can handle before this is over. 
[Defiant Corridor]
(Worf decks a patrolling Jem'Hadar.) 
WORF: Let's go. 
O'BRIEN: I'm right with you. 
[Engine room]
(Worf shoots the soldier guarding the warp core) 
DAX: Worf. 
(Worf shoots down the other Jem'Hadar shimmering into view.) 
WORF: Go. 
(O'Brien primes the bomb he was carrying.) 
O'BRIEN: Ready. 
DAX: Wait. The room's not secure. We have to find the third guard. 
WORF: I do not see him. 
DAX: He's here somewhere. 
WORF: I know. 
O'BRIEN: We're supposed to be on our way out by now. 
WORF: Where is he? 
ODO: We're running out of time, Commander. 
WORF: The third Jem'Hadar guard. He is still here somewhere. 
ODO: Look for a slight rippling effect. 
DAX: We know what we're looking for. We just can't find it. 
(Lights up, along with the Jem'Hadar. Sisko, Weyoun and Omet'iklan come onto the upper level balcony.) 
O'BRIEN: We're dead. 
OMET'IKLAN: That's correct. 
WEYOUN: The Jem'Hadar defence grid is now in operation. Automated weapons systems have killed everyone in this room. 
OMET'IKLAN: Your crew failed in their mission. 
DAX: Well you might as well tell us. Where's the other one? 
OMET'IKLAN: There was no third guard. 
SISKO: I don't understand. You told me the Jem'Hadar soldiers always operate in teams of three. 
OMET'IKLAN: In battle, nothing is certain. You should have armed the explosives as soon as you were in position. 
WORF: We had to be sure the room was secure. otherwise someone could have disarmed the explosive the moment we left. 
OMET'IKLAN: If you couldn't secure the room, you should not plan on leaving it. 
O'BRIEN: You want us to blow the place up while we're still in it? 
OMET'IKLAN: This is a waste of time. They'll never succeed as long as they value their lives more than victory. 
WEYOUN: There's something to be said for soldiers who aren't afraid to die. 
SISKO: I don't know. I've found nothing keeps me alert quite like a healthy fear of death. Keep practicing. The two of you, with me. 
[Defiant Corridor]
SISKO: One of the reasons for these drills is to help our crews learn to work together. Constantly showing contempt for my people isn't making it any easier. 
OMET'IKLAN: Would you prefer I lied? 
SISKO: What I'd like is for you to at least maintain the pretence that we're on the same side. 
[Defiant Turbolift]
WEYOUN: Captain, I understand your concerns, and so does Omet'iklan. 
SISKO: Deck five, section one. 
OMET'IKLAN: The only way my troops can come to respect your crew is to fight alongside them. Mixed teams in every aspect of the mission. 
WEYOUN: That's not practical. 
OMET'IKLAN: Why not? 
WEYOUN: Are you questioning my decision? 
OMET'IKLAN: You fool. My men and I, we know all about the Gateway. 
SISKO: Halt turbolift. Looks like your secret's out. 
WEYOUN: How do you know about the Gateway? 
OMET'IKLAN: It doesn't matter how we know. The point is, we know. You think you have to lie to us and use the white to ensure our loyalty. But the fact is, we are more loyal to the Founders than the Vorta ever will. It is the reason for our existence. It is the core of our being. 
WEYOUN: There's an entire company of Jem'Hadar down on Vandros Four who would disagree with you. 
OMET'IKLAN: And for that, they will die. 
SISKO: Mixed teams it is. But let's get one thing straight. This isn't going to be a suicide mission. As far as I'm concerned, everyone who goes in, comes back out. Starfleet and Jem'Hadar alike. 
OMET'IKLAN: Your concern for life is touching. Let's hope it doesn't stop us from achieving our objectives. 
SISKO: Computer, reactivate turbolift. 
[Bridge]
DAX: Am I really that interesting? You've been standing there staring at me for the last two hours. 
VIRAK'KARA: You are part of my combat team. I must learn to understand your behaviour, anticipate your actions. 
DAX: There must be something you'd rather do. Maybe get some sleep? 
VIRAK'KARA: We don't sleep. 
DAX: How about getting something to eat? 
VIRAK'KARA: The white is the only thing we need. 
DAX: Don't sleep, don't eat. What do you do for relaxation? 
VIRAK'KARA: Relaxation would only make us weak. 
DAX: You people are no fun at all. Glad I'm not a Jem'Hadar woman. 
VIRAK'KARA: There are no Jem'Hadar women. 
DAX: So what do you do? Lay eggs? 
VIRAK'KARA: Jem'Hadar are bred in birthing chambers. We are able to fight within three days of our emergence. 
DAX: Lucky you. So let me get this straight. No food, so sleep, no women. No wonder you're so angry. After thirty or forty years of that, I'd be angry too. 
VIRAK'KARA: No Jem'Hadar has ever lived thirty years. 
DAX: How old are you? 
VIRAK'KARA: I am eight. 
DAX: I would've guessed at least fifteen. 
VIRAK'KARA: Few Jem'Hadar live that long. If we reach twenty we are considered Honoured Elders. How old are you? 
DAX: I stopped counting at three hundred. 
VIRAK'KARA: You don't look it. 
DAX: Thank you. 
[Mess hall]
O'BRIEN: No women? I'm not surprised. 
ODO: Personally, I envy them. I mean their ability to go without sleep. I'm sure I could be more productive if I didn't have to regenerate every day. 
WORF: What is the point of doing battle if you cannot enjoy the fruits of victory? 
O'BRIEN: You mean sleep? 
WORF: No, I mean spending long nights singing songs of your deeds. Good food, good drink. 
DAX: And good women. 
WORF: We consider Klingon women our partners in battle. They are the mothers of our children. 
DAX: And a lot of fun at parties too. 
WORF: True. 
ODO: Why does he keep staring at us? 
O'BRIEN: I don't think it's us he's staring at. I think it's you. 
DAX: The Vorta probably consider the Founders gods just like the Jem'Hadar do. 
ODO: I am not a Founder. 
DAX: Well, you're a changeling. That's close enough. To them. 
O'BRIEN: I wonder what would happen if you went over to him and ordered him to stand on his head? 
(The Jem'Hadar troop in with the box and place it on Weyoun's table.) 
OMET'IKLAN: It's time. 
WEYOUN: It is time when I say it's time. Oh, very well. (to box) Prepare six phials. Unlock. First Omet'iklan, can you vouch for the loyalty of your men? 
OMET'IKLAN: We pledge our loyalty to the Founders from now until death. 
WEYOUN: Then receive this reward from the Founders. May it keep you strong. 
(The phials of white are handed out and inserted.);
O'BRIEN: I guess that's one way to ensure loyalty. 
WORF: Loyalty bought at such a price is no loyalty at all. 
OMET'IKLAN: Resume your training. 
TOMAN'TORAX: Human, come with me. It is time to resume our battle drills. 
O'BRIEN: In a minute. 
TOMAN'TORAX: I'm ready now. 
O'BRIEN: Well, I'm not. 
TOMAN'TORAX: They stuff themselves with food but have no appetite for battle. 
WORF: When the time comes, you will find us more than ready. 
TOMAN'TORAX: Ready to flee at the first sign of danger. Let's go. You can practice running away. 
(Toman'torax grabs O'Brien's shoulder so Worf hits Toman'torax.) 
TOMAN'TORAX: I've always wanted to kill a Klingon. 
(And a general brawl breaks out. Sisko enters) 
SISKO: That's enough! The next one who throws a punch will have to answer to me. Now, I want to know who started this. 
WORF: I did. 
TOMAN'TORAX: And I. 
OMET'IKLAN: You again. You knew my orders. 
TOMAN'TORAX: And I defied them. I deserve punishment. 
OMET'IKLAN: And you shall have it. 
(Omet'iklan stands behind Toman'torax and kills him.) 
OMET'IKLAN: Why are you waiting? Kill him and be done with it. 
SISKO: Mister Worf, when not on duty, you are confined to quarters for the remainder of this mission. 
WORF: Yes, sir. 
(Worf leaves) 
SISKO: All right, let's break this up. Get back to your stations or go to your quarters. Either way, I want this room cleared. Now! 
(The crew leave.) 
OMET'IKLAN: You call that discipline? 
SISKO: A dead man can't learn from his mistakes. I don't get the same joy out of killing as you do. 
OMET'IKLAN: You think I enjoyed it? Toman'torax was my Second. He served under me three years. I valued him. 
SISKO: You have a funny way of showing it. 
OMET'IKLAN: I did what had to be done, what any First would do. I placed the good of the unit above my personal feelings. Any soldier who cannot follow orders is a danger to his unit and must be eliminated. 
SISKO: Mister Worf is not a danger to my command. But if I eliminate him for a simple breach of discipline, then I would be. My men would stop trusting me, and I wouldn't blame them. 
OMET'IKLAN: You are weak. You should die in his place. And when this mission is over, I will see that you do. 
[Defiant Corridor]
(Weyoun comes out of his cabin.) 
WEYOUN: Odo, may I speak with you for a moment? 
ODO: A moment. 
WEYOUN: You know I've been watching you. 
ODO: I've noticed. 
WEYOUN: I have to admit I find it somewhat disturbing seeing you working for these Federation people, letting them order you around. You are a Founder. You should be the one giving the orders to them, to the Jem'Hadar, even me. 
ODO: So if I order you to leave me alone, you will? 
WEYOUN: Of course. But before you do, please, hear what I have to say. Your people want you to come home, Odo. No matter what differences you may have with them, no matter what mistakes you may have made, they still love you. 
ODO: Well maybe they do, but I don't love them. 
WEYOUN: You're lying. And you're not very good at it. I, on the other hand, am an expert on lies. Both in telling them, and in spotting them. So you may as well admit the truth. More than anything in your life, you want to return to your people. And I can make that possible. 
ODO: How? 
WEYOUN: Let me worry about the how. All I need to know is, are you ready to go home? 
ODO: No. But I am ready to end this conversation. 
WEYOUN: Then it's over. After all, you are a Founder. I live to serve you. 
[Bridge]
(O'Brien enters with an isolinear chip.) 
O'BRIEN: Commander? 
DAX: For Keiko? 
O'BRIEN: It's my eleventh goodbye message since we've been married. I average almost two a year. 
DAX: Does she know you do this? 
O'BRIEN: What would I tell her? You know, honey, every time I'm about to go into battle I record a message for you and Molly telling how much I love you, just in case. 
DAX: She'd probably think it was sweet. 
O'BRIEN: It'd probably scare the hell out of her. To be honest, it scares the hell out of me. Every time I record one of these I think, this is it. This is the one they're going to end up hearing. 
DAX: It'll never happen. 
O'BRIEN: What makes you say that? 
DAX: Because when you've lived eight lifetimes, you develop certain instincts. And my instincts tell me that you, Miles Edward O'Brien, are going to live to be a hundred and forty and die in bed, surrounded by family and friends. 
O'BRIEN: Do you really believe that? 
DAX: Do you? 
O'BRIEN: I'd like to. 
DAX: That's all that matters. 
O'BRIEN: Well, just to be on the safe side, maybe you'd better enter this in the ship's log anyway. 
DAX: I'll put it right alongside my message to my mother. 
O'BRIEN: You record these, too? 
DAX: Doesn't everyone? 
[Engine room]
CREWMAN: Sir. 
(A progress report is handed over.) 
SISKO: Well, it looks like the upgraded reactant injectors are working better than we thought. 
WORF: Captain. 
SISKO: Mister Worf. Battle drills ended ten minutes ago. You should be in your quarters. 
WORF: I'm on my way. 
SISKO: It looks like you got a little lost. 
WORF: There is something I wish to discuss with you. 
SISKO: Go on. 
WORF: It has come to my attention that First Omet'iklan has threatened to kill you. 
SISKO: I didn't know that was public knowledge. 
WORF: You told Commander Dax. 
SISKO: Well, that explains it. 
WORF: She's concerned about you, and for good reason. As your executive officer, I recommend that you remain on the ship during the away mission. That way, Omet'iklan will have no opportunity to carry out his threat. 
SISKO: I appreciate the concern, but do you really think I'm going to follow that recommendation? 
WORF: No, sir, I do not. But I hope you will take some advice. Do not turn your back on him. 
SISKO: I won't. 
WORF: Good. I also want you to know if somehow he does carry out his threat, he will not live to boast about it. 
SISKO: That's very reassuring, Mister Worf. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Sisko. 
SISKO: Sisko here. 
DAX [OC]: We're approaching Vandros Four, Captain. 
SISKO: On my way. 
[Arms locker]
(O'Brien hands out phaser rifles to the Starfleet people, then the Jem'Hadar queue up.) 
OMET'IKLAN: I'm waiting. 
(Sisko nods) 
O'BRIEN: Don't worry. These aren't like the ones we gave you during the drill. They're fully charged. 
VIRAK'KARA: The weapon's set on stun. 
OMET'IKLAN: Deactivate safeties. Reset weapons to maximum power. 
WEYOUN: Well, this is a momentous occasion. The first joint operation between the Federation and the Dominion. I can't wait to see how it turns out. 
SISKO: Prepare to transport. 
OMET'IKLAN: Wait. I am First Omet'iklan, and I am dead. As of this moment we are all dead. We go into battle to reclaim our lives. This we do gladly, for we are Jem'Hadar. Remember. Victory is life. 
JEM'HADAR: Victory is life. 
(The Jem'Hadar march off.) 
WEYOUN: Such a delightful people. 
(O'Brien turns to the Starfleet crew.) 
O'BRIEN: I am Chief Miles Edward O'Brien. I'm very much alive and I intend to stay that way. 
SISKO: Amen. Let's get it done. 
[Planet surface]
(The landing party are taking cover behind trees. Sisko waves them out.) 
OMET'IKLAN: You betrayed us. 
SISKO: What are you talking about? 
OMET'IKLAN: Our rifles have been sabotaged. 
O'BRIEN: Hold on. Mine's dead too. 
WORF: Something must be interfering with our equipment. 
DAX: The Gateway. It's probably generating some kind of dampening field. 
ODO: If that's the case, we'd better come up with a new plan. 
(Six renegade Jem'Hadar shimmer in and attack with blade weapons. Worf stabs one with his mek'leth before he can kill Sisko. Soon after, the fight is over and Sisko is checking for pulses.) 
ODO: We lost Ramirez, too. 
WORF: It would appear we no longer have the element of surprise. 
OMET'IKLAN: I suppose you want to call off the mission. 
SISKO: Guess again. 
[Ziggurat entrance]
(This time, our Jem'Hadar shimmer in and start the fight. Then Starfleet join in too. They get inside.) 
[Ziggurat vestibule]
DAX: Worf. 
WORF: This way. 
DAX: Go ahead. We'll hold them off. 
(She and her group fight the incoming guards.) 
[Ziggurat corridor]
(Another guards are dispatched.) 
WORF: Keep moving. 
[Ziggurat vestibule]
DAX: Virak'kara, you still there? 
VIRAK'KARA: For a little while longer at least. 
DAX: Don't worry. You'll make Honoured Elder yet. 
[Ziggurat corridor]
(More fighting, and Worf is on his own.) 
JEM'HADAR [OC]: Quick, down that way. Look down that hall. Over there. 
WORF: I think we have waited long enough. 
(Worf puts down his satchel, which morphs to knock down the entering Jem'Hadar) 
[Passageway]
SISKO: You're sure the explosives won't be affected by the Gateway? 
O'BRIEN: The primary detonator might not work, but the chemical backup should do the trick. 
OMET'IKLAN: The way is clear. 
SISKO: Let's move. 
[Gateway chamber]
(As in Contagion, the Gateway shows a steady stream of images of it's destinations. The guards are taken out so O'Brien can set the explosives. We see various backgrounds including either the Eiffel Tower or the Blackpool Tower - they are nearly identical - Bajor, Kronos. A cloaked fighter wounds Sisko as he gets between it and Omet'iklan.) 
OMET'IKLAN: I threatened to kill you, but you were still willing to sacrifice yourself to save my life. 
SISKO: Looks that way. 
OMET'IKLAN: Why? 
SISKO: If you have to ask, you'll never understand. 
O'BRIEN: Gentlemen, I think it's time we were leaving. 
[Ziggurat vestibule]
ODO: Let's go, Dax. 
DAX: (to downed renegade) If I were you, I'd run like hell. 
[Planet surface]
SISKO: What about Dax and the others? 
WORF: Here, Captain. 
(KaBOOM!) 
O'BRIEN: So much for the Gateway. 
ODO: It looks like we got out just in time. 
VIRAK'KARA: Our weapons are working again. 
(Starfleet put down the blades and get out their hand phasers as Weyoun beams in with the white.) 
WEYOUN: The Defiant's sensors registered a powerful explosion in the vicinity of the Gateway. I trust your mission was a success? 
DAX: The Gateway's been destroyed, if that's what you mean. 
WEYOUN: Well done, Captain. You've all done quite nicely. Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to inspect the wreckage. 
(Omet'iklan vapourises Weyoun.) 
OMET'IKLAN: That was for questioning our loyalty. I think there's been enough killing for one day. 
VIRAK'KARA: The Vorta will have no further use of this. (the white) 
OMET'IKLAN: My men and I will remain here. There are still disloyal Jem'Hadar on this planet. They must be hunted down and eliminated. 
SISKO: Good luck. 
OMET'IKLAN: You fought well. But the next time we meet, we'll be enemies. 
SISKO: I'll keep that in mind. 
(The Jem'Hadar shimmer away) 
O'BRIEN: I don't know about the rest of you, but I'd like to get out of here. 
SISKO: Sisko to Defiant. Begin transport. 

