Episode Number: 415
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Progress
Progress
Stardate: 46844.3
Original Airdate: 10 May, 1993
[Quark's]
(After hours, the boys are playing cards) 
QUARK: (coming down the stairs with a waiter) I thought I told you to cancel that order. Now what am I supposed to do with five thousand wrappages of Cardassian yamok sauce. They're the only ones who could stomach that swill. 
JAKE: Hey, Nog, are you going to play, or what? 
QUARK: You ordered it, you're going to pay for it. I'm going to take half of your paycheck every week for the next six years. From now on, no more Cardassian food in here ever. 
JAKE: Come on, Nog, it's your turn. 
(Quark and the waiter leave) 
NOG: Five thousand wrappages. That's a lot of yamok sauce. 
JAKE: Look, either take your turn, or I win. 
NOG: It'd be a shame to let it to go to waste. 
JAKE: That's it. Game over. 
NOG: Jake, I'm getting that tingle in the lobes. And when a lobe tingles, it means only one thing. Opportunity. 
JAKE: What are you talking about? 
NOG: I'm talking about gold-pressed latinum. Maybe four or five bars. 
JAKE: I thought you were talking about yamok sauce. 
NOG: You've got a lot to learn about opportunity. Come on. 
JAKE: Where? 
Station log. Stardate 46844.3. With the help of the Federation, Bajor is about to commence its first large-scale energy transfer, the tapping of the molten core of its fifth moon, Jeraddo. 
[Ops]
DAX: Magma pressures remain constant. 
O'BRIEN: Differential subsurface movement is at zero point three percent. 
TORAN: Is that good? 
KIRA: They'd tell you if it weren't. 
TORAN: Why is that red light blinking? 
O'BRIEN: We're in normal standby mode. 
TORAN: I take it, then, that we're not expecting any surprises. 
SISKO: We don't like surprises any more than you do. 
KIRA: Minister Toran, these people are professionals. 
TORAN: Forgive my bureaucratic nitpicking, Major, but we're counting on Jeraddo's energy to heat a few hundred thousand Bajoran homes this winter. 
KIRA: And with that in mind, we're due to make our next inspection. 
[Runabout Ganges]
DAX: Anyway, so there I was, sitting in Quark's, when Morn just comes over and invites me for dinner. Grid square twelve-delta reads clear of life forms. 
KIRA: Morn? Are you serious? 
DAX: Beginning scan of grid square fifteen delta. 
KIRA: So what'd you say? 
DAX: I told him I was busy. 
KIRA: Good. 
DAX: But you know those seven or eight little wiry hairs that come out of his forehead? 
KIRA: What? 
DAX: They make him look kind of cute. That's odd. Sensors read a humanoid presence in fifteen delta. Could be one of the project thermologists. 
KIRA: Not in fifteen delta. 
DAX: Look for yourself. 
KIRA: All the inhabitants were supposed to have been evacuated by now. Well, I'd better beam down there, take a look around. 
DAX: Ready to transport. 
KIRA: I won't be long. 
[Outside the cottage]
(A well kept smallholding with a partly built kiln. A man and a woman with alien gardening tools 'capture' Kira) 
(After the titles, we meet an older man in his doorway - played by Brian Keith, great actor) 
MULLIBOK: The problem is, they don't like uniforms. 
KIRA: Neither do I, but it comes with the job. 
MULLIBOK: Which is? 
KIRA: Do we talk, or do they attack? 
MULLIBOK: You're halfway pretty. 
KIRA: Does that mean I can come in? 
MULLIBOK: No. No, I don't like uniforms either. I'm scared of them. We had our fill of uniformed bullies. 
KIRA: I'm no Cardassian. You know you were supposed to be out of here by now. 
MULLIBOK: All I know is this farm, girl. Now you want proof, just look at my crop. 
KIRA: I'd rather you didn't call me girl. 
(She holds the cottage door open) 
MULLIBOK: It's mostly katterpod beans, but you won't find better katterpods. 
KIRA: My father always said you get bigger katterpods when you spray in some chlorobicrobes. 
MULLIBOK: Is that right? That could be. Your family's farmers, then. 
KIRA: No but if I don't get on your good side soon, my arm's going to fall off. 
MULLIBOK: Pretty eyes like yours deserve a meal. You come on in. 
KIRA: I'm afraid we don't have the time. Obviously, you were overlooked in the general evacuation. I've got to get you out of here. 
MULLIBOK: We'll talk about that over supper. Come on. 
[Promenade - upper level]
(The boys are looking for someone, and find him) 
JAKE: There he is. 
(They head downstairs to where two aliens are talking business at a table) 
[Promenade]
CAPTAIN: Two twenty, bottom price two twenty. 
(But the deal's not made and he walks away.) 
NOG: Excuse me, sir. Are you the captain of the Lissepian cargo ship? 
CAPTAIN: That's right. 
NOG: And you do a lot of trading with the Cardassians? 
CAPTAIN: Why not? One thing about Cardassians, they pay their bills. 
NOG: Yes, I've heard that. I've also heard they love their yamok sauce. 
CAPTAIN: Look, if you're trying to buy some yamok sauce from me, boy, you're wasting your time. I'm not carrying any. 
NOG: We're not buying. We're selling. 
JAKE: Five thousand wrappages of it. 
NOG: Original, not replicated. 
CAPTAIN: Where would you two boys get all that yamok sauce? 
NOG: We have connections. 
CAPTAIN: Five thousand, you say. 
NOG: And they can be yours for say, five bars of gold-pressed latinum. 
CAPTAIN: That's a lot of latinum. 
NOG: That's a lot of yamok sauce. 
CAPTAIN: Look, I'm not carrying any latinum. But I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll trade you something for it. 
NOG: We were counting on latinum. 
JAKE: Hold on. What would you trade? 
) CAPTAIN: I'll give you a hundred gross of self-sealing stem bolts. Some Bajoran ordered them from me, and now he can't pay. 
JAKE: Self-sealing stem bolts? 
CAPTAIN: Top grade merchandise. You won't find a better stem bolt in this sector. 
NOG: I don't think so. We deal strictly in latinum. 
(Jake takes Nog off to the side) 
JAKE: Nog, are you sure? 
NOG: What are we going to do with stem bolts? 
JAKE: What are we going to do with yamok sauce? 
NOG: Sir, I've discussed it with my partner, and you have a deal. 
CAPTAIN: Good. I'll meet you at cargo bay nine at twenty one hundred hours. We'll make the trade then. 
(The Captain walks on.) 
NOG: Now the question is, what do we do with a hundred gross of self-sealing stem bolts. 
JAKE: I have a better question. How do we get your uncle's yamok sauce? 
[Cottage]
(The meal is vegetarian by the looks of it) 
MULLIBOK: At least you're not the type that'd dispossess a man on an empty stomach. 
KIRA: Wouldn't think of it. 
MULLIBOK: That's good, because these roots are going to take three hours to soften. 
KIRA: What? 
MULLIBOK: You wouldn't want to eat your roots hard, now would you? 
KIRA: I'm in no hurry. Kira to Ganges. 
DAX [OC]: This is Dax. Are you all right? 
KIRA: A man with a talent for delay has just invited me to a farewell supper here. You go on. I'll have one of the thermologists bring me back. 
DAX [OC]: Enjoy supper. Dax out. 
MULLIBOK: Here. (hands Kira the root) Wash it off first, and then you scrape the skin off. 
KIRA: (to the woman) You don't talk much. 
MULLIBOK: No, they don't talk at all. The Cardassians took care of that. They escaped up to this moon eighteen years ago. I've been here forty. We did real well together. Oh, get out the plates and utensils, like a good girl. That cupboard right over there. 
(Kira does, and as she walks away from him) 
You know, you look real good even from this angle. But you know something? You walk like a carnivorous rastipod. 
KIRA: Now look! (smiles) You're trying to make me mad. 
MULLIBOK: How'm I doing? 
KIRA: Not well enough to get rid of me. 
MULLIBOK: Damn. So what do they call you, dear? 
KIRA: I'm Major Kira. I'm in charge of evacuating all the 
MULLIBOK: Your given name. 
KIRA: Nerys. 
MULLIBOK: Nerys. Well, Nerys, I'm Mullibok, and these roots are really going to take three hours to cook, so you might as well just sit down and relax yourself, child. It's going to be tasty. 
KIRA: Mullibok, they begin tapping the core of this moon in seven days. 
MULLIBOK: I know. 
KIRA: You are only three people. This project is going to benefit thousands, hundreds of thousands. 
MULLIBOK: I made myself unconcerned with that forty years ago when I ran away from a Cardassian labour camp on your precious Bajor. 
KIRA: What we're trying to create now is what you weren't allowed to have then. It can be your Bajor, too. 
MULLIBOK: This is where I live. This is my home. 
KIRA: You can have a home on Bajor with people to welcome you and your friends. Life'll be different, yes, but it'll be fine. Really. 
MULLIBOK: No. I told you, my life's here. If I leave, I'll die. So I'd rather die here. 
[Quark's]
GIRL: Dabo! 
(A Starfleet Bolian leaves with his winnings) 
NOG: Uncle Quark. 
QUARK: You. Last night, that dabo player who dropped his drink? I saw you run and get him another one without charging him. I warned you about picking up your father's habits. 
NOG: It'll never happen again, Uncle. You know, I was trying to find some storage space for the shipment of lokar beans that are due in tomorrow. Is it okay if I stack them on top of the yamok sauce? If I can reach that high. 
QUARK: Please don't talk to me about yamok sauce. 
NOG: Do you want me to get rid of it? I can take it to the matter reclamation unit. 
QUARK: Anything. Just get it out of my sight. Nog, you're a good boy. 
[Cottage]
(Supper is in progress) 
MULLIBOK: I stowed away on a Cardassian survey vessel which was making stops all through the Bajoran system. They were looking for possible mining sites. Anyway, when we got here to Jeraddo, I overpowered the crew and I stole whatever I'd need to start building my life here. 
KIRA: You overpowered the crew yourself? 
MULLIBOK: There were only six of them. That was fortunate for me, because I was somewhat weakened a bit by the captivity and starvation. Anyway, here I was, the first person ever to settle on this moon, and the only trouble was that I didn't have any kind of farm implements. So once again starvation and I were staring each other in the face. I'm not boring you? 
KIRA: No, no. I want to hear who won. 
MULLIBOK: Well, it was mind over matter. Every twenty-six hours I'd just tightened up my waist-belt another notch, and that way my belly didn't know that it was shrinking. 
KIRA: Excuse me? 
MULLIBOK: You asked me to tell you how I got started here, which I'm trying very politely to do. Now will you kindly let me finish. 
KIRA: I assume you found some food before you ran out of belt notches. 
MULLIBOK: Are you telling the story or am I? 
KIRA: By all means. I can't wait to hear how it ends. 
MULLIBOK: Obviously I was going to have to plant and harvest a crop. So I did what any person would do who had to build an entire world for himself. First I rolled back and forth on the ground til it surrendered. Then I went down on my hands and knees and I started to plow using nothing but my fingernails, mind you. I plowed every last furrow in that field straight as a plumb line. 
KIRA: Now that is inventive. 
MULLIBOK: If I came across a deposit of mineralised clay, what I'd do is just grind it up in my teeth. That way it enriched the soil. Baltrim, how about some of that wonderful wine here? What I'm telling you, Major. I tamed this place. Me. 
KIRA: I believe you. 
MULLIBOK: You look like a bit of a fighter yourself. 
KIRA: Well, on Bajor, we had to be. 
MULLIBOK: To get rid of the Cardassians. Mindless butchers. 
KIRA: We paid them back. 
MULLIBOK: I bet you did. They probably never knew what hit them. I'm sorry I missed the fun. 
KIRA: Fun? 
MULLIBOK: Must have been like spearing kandippers in a bottle. 
KIRA: Wait a minute, are you serious? You know what the Cardassians were like, what weapons they had. We didn't stand a chance against them. 
MULLIBOK: How'd you beat them, then? 
KIRA: We beat them because, because we hung on like fanatics. 
MULLIBOK: Hung on like fanatics. I got to remember that. 
[Outside the cottage]
KIRA: Mullibok, listen to me. 
MULLIBOK: One of these days I'm going to have to finish up that kiln. Then I can temper my baking pots, put some colourful lids on them. That'd be nice, wouldn't it. 
KIRA: I appreciate that you're trying to hang on here. I sympathise, but you can't stay. The minute they start tapping the crust, it'll release carbon and sulphur compounds that'll make the air unbreathable. 
MULLIBOK: The Cardassians probably told you you didn't stand a chance, either. Did you surrender? 
KIRA: No. 
MULLIBOK: Why would you expect me to act any different than you? You tell them they can start cracking this moon apart whenever they're ready. I'll be here. 
KIRA: I'll tell them. 
[Cargo bay]
(Nog is inspecting their merchandise, a small device that springs out two rods when pressed.) 
JAKE: So that's a stem bolt. 
NOG: A self-sealing stem bolt. There's a difference. 
JAKE: You're sure about that? 
NOG: What's important is that it's top grade merchandise. You can't get a better stem bolt in this sector. 
JAKE: And we have a hundred gross of them. 
NOG: That's a lot of stem bolts. 
O'BRIEN: Excuse me, gentlemen. Anyone know what this cargo's doing here? 
NOG: It belongs to my Uncle Quark. They're stem bolts. 
O'BRIEN: Will you do me a favour and tell your uncle we're getting a bit weary of him bypassing import procedures. 
NOG: I'll certainly do that, sir. It's just that my Uncle Quark really needed some stem bolts. 
O'BRIEN: You mean self-sealing stem bolts. 
NOG: That's right. That's it. Self-sealing stem bolts. 
O'BRIEN: He sure needs a lot of them. 
JAKE: It's top grade merchandise. You can't find a better stem bolt in this sector. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, I don't doubt it. What does he need them for? 
NOG: The usual. 
O'BRIEN: The usual? 
NOG: Well, you know. Why does anybody use self-sealing stem bolts? 
O'BRIEN: I wouldn't know. I've never used them. 
JAKE: Never? 
O'BRIEN: I've never even seen one. 
NOG: Then how did you know they're self-sealing? 
O'BRIEN: I read it here on the manifest PADD. 
(O'Brien leaves) 
NOG: I would've bet anything that he would have known what they were. 
JAKE: I told you. We should've asked that freighter captain. 
NOG: Wait. I know who can tell us what self-sealing stem bolts are. The Bajoran who ordered them in the first place. His name's got to be on the shipping codes. 
JAKE: Sirco Ch'Ano. It has his address and everything. You think he'll be mad that we have his stem bolts? 
NOG: He couldn't afford them, remember? But we'll offer to sell them to him at a discount. 
[Ops]
(Kira enters) 
DAX: I'm glad you finally made it back. I was getting worried about you. 
KIRA: Is he alone? 
DAX: I think Minister Toran is in there with him. 
KIRA: Even better. 
[Commander's office]
TORAN: I don't understand. There were forty-seven other people living on that moon. They all left willingly. 
KIRA: How do we know? All we know is that they obeyed the order to leave. 
TORAN: And so will these people. 
KIRA: You haven't met Mullibok. 
SISKO: Is there anything you can offer that might make him more willing to leave? 
KIRA: Not a thing, believe me. 
SISKO: Would a postponement help? 
KIRA: Give us time to work something out with him. 
TORAN: We can't postpone. And if he stays, he'll be committing suicide. We'll have to beam him off the surface. 
KIRA: If we take him like that, we'll be killing him. 
TORAN: I refuse to allow three stubborn holdouts to jeopardise a project that will benefit so many of our people. I'm sorry, Major. If there was anything else that we could do, we'd have done it. 
KIRA: But there is another way. We can tap the core using phased energy retrieval. 
TORAN: I thought we'd agreed phased energy retrieval would take too long. It would mean waiting a full year before we can extract any meaningful amount of energy. I wish we had the time to be more delicate, but we don't. 
KIRA: So instead we'll act like Cardassians. 
SISKO: Easy, Major. 
TORAN: I resent that. It's obvious to me that you've developed a feeling for this man. Fine. I can accept that. But if you're not comfortable with completing this assignment, I'll find someone else who is. 
KIRA: That won't be necessary. 
[Outside the cottage]
KIRA: Mullibok? Mullibok! 
SECURITY: What about the other two? 
KIRA: They have a cottage thirty five, forty metres through there. Now remember, these people were victims of the Cardassians. They don't speak. They're very frightened of uniforms. Understood? 
SECURITY: Understood, Major. 
KIRA: If you find them working in the fields, just gather up their clothes and supplies, I guess. 
SECURITY: Without permission? 
KIRA: We're not going to get their permission. Just be very careful with everything. 
(The two security men leave, Mullibok come out of his cottage) 
MULLIBOK: You plan to use that? 
KIRA: Protocol. If you like, I'll help you pack your things. 
MULLIBOK: You sent those two uniforms after Baltrim and Keena. 
KIRA: That's right. I'm doing what has to be done. 
MULLIBOK: Me, too. 
(And he goes inside and shuts the door.) 
KIRA: Don't make us take you by force. Please! 
(Mullibok comes out and goes to work on his kiln) 
KIRA: I promise you. It won't be so bad. You can plant whatever you want to on Bajor. Stay by yourself if you want to. That's fine. Take some seeds with you for those terrible roots of yours I had to eat. Just listen to reason. 
MULLIBOK: Just listen to yourself, Major. Tell me what you hear. 
KIRA: What do you mean? 
MULLIBOK: Well, I mean you sound like a two-headed Malgorian I knew when I was a boy. You ever try talk to a two-headed Malgorian? 
KIRA: This is no time for one of your stories. 
MULLIBOK: You see, the thing about two-headed Malgorians is, it can never figure out what it really wants to do, and that can be very confusing, believe me. 
KIRA: You know, eventually you're going to have to stop talking, and deal with this. 
MULLIBOK: And the trouble with my Malgorian friend was, he had all kind of problems and he couldn't decide how to solve them. So he'd always come running for me so I could solve them for him. 
KIRA: Mullibok. 
MULLIBOK: You know what I finally said to that Malgorian? I said fellows, deal with it yourselves. 
KIRA: Fine. I'll pack your things myself. 
SECURITY: Major! They're crazy! The man just stuck me with a farm tool, and she attacked me from behind! 
MULLIBOK: Let her go! 
SECURITY: Stop! 
MULLIBOK: Let her go! 
(Mullibok grabs the second security by the throat and pushes him over. Security one draws his weapon.) 
KIRA: No! 
(Security one shoots Mullibok) 
KIRA: You! Beam up to the runabout and call the station. Get Doctor Bashir. Move! 
[Sisko's quarters]
(Nog is doing something clever with a circuit board) 
CH'ANO [OC]: I'm sorry, I still can't see you. What'd you say your name was? I'm getting some kind of subspace interference. 
JAKE: My name's 
NOG: We're, the Nog and, er the Noh-Jay Consortium, and we have a hundred gross of self-sealing stem bolts. And we were wondering 
CH'ANO [OC]: You have my stem bolts? What would you want for them? 
NOG: We'll let you have them for five bars of gold-pressed latinum. 
CH'ANO [OC]: Five bars! 
NOG: Four bars. 
CH'ANO [OC]: I don't think I 
NOG: Three bars. 
CH'ANO [OC]: If I had any latinum, I'd already have the bolts. Would you consider an exchange? 
NOG: I would consider one bar of latinum. 
JAKE: He doesn't have any latinum. Let's exchange for something. 
NOG: I don't want something. I want latinum. 
CH'ANO [OC]: I can't hear you. Can I interest you in a piece of land? 
JAKE: Land is good. 
NOG: For what? It's nothing but dirt. 
JAKE: How much land? 
CH'ANO [OC]: I can let you have seven tessipates. 
JAKE: Seven sounds good. 
NOG: First yamok sauce, then stem bolts, now tessipates, and still no profit. 
JAKE: We're getting closer. I can feel it. 
NOG: You can? 
JAKE: I think so. 
CH'ANO [OC]: Do we have a deal? 
JAKE: We'd have to see proof that you own the land. 
CH'ANO [OC]: Naturally. You'll get a transmission on that by twelve hundred hours. 
JAKE: You just bought yourself some stem bolts. 
(transmission ends) 
JAKE: Land! 
NOG: Dirt. 
[Cottage]
BASHIR: Just rest easy. You took a phaser blast which punctured your peritoneum. It's serious, and if you try to move around, you'll make it worse. 
MULLIBOK: Another uniform. 
BASHIR: Doctor Julian Bashir, Starfleet. Major Kira sent for me. 
MULLIBOK: She did, huh? You're backwards, Nerys, I told you. 
(Kira leaves) 
MULLIBOK: With me unconscious, she could have swept us all off of here with no trouble at all. My friends Baltrim and Keena? 
BASHIR: They've been evacuated to Bajor. I'll be taking you back to our station, so I can 
MULLIBOK: No. I stay here. 
[Outside the cottage]
BASHIR: He refuses to leave. 
KIRA: Really? 
BASHIR: He's got to be cared for. I'm going to take him without his permission. 
KIRA: No, you're not. 
BASHIR: He needs close attention. 
KIRA: I'll be here. 
(She takes off her tunic) 
BASHIR: There's no medical facility here. 
KIRA: Leave the instructions and whatever medication you think he'll need. 
(She starts working on the kiln) 
[Commander's office]
BASHIR: She didn't offer a word of explanation, sir. She simply removed her uniform tunic and started building. 
SISKO: Well Doctor, right now she stands a pretty good chance of being out of uniform permanently. I'm going to tell Minister Toran that she's remained temporarily on Jeraddo at your request. 
BASHIR: But sir, that isn't true. 
SISKO: Make it true, Doctor. Now, please. 
BASHIR: Commander, I'd advise that Major Kira remain on Jeraddo for humanitarian reasons. How long? 
SISKO: The next day or two. 
BASHIR: For the next day or two, sir. 
SISKO: Thank you, Doctor. I'll consider that request. Dismissed. 
[Cottage]
(Kira is running a device over Mullibok's chest) 
MULLIBOK: What's that? 
KIRA: It's for deep bruises. Don't ask my why it works. I'm not the doctor. 
MULLIBOK: What're they going to do to you for staying here? 
KIRA: Probably the same thing they're going to do to you. I don't really know. 
MULLIBOK: What are you so angry about? 
KIRA: I don't really know. When I was very small, I remember there was this tree right outside my window. It was the ugliest, most gnarled and battered old tree I've ever seen. Even the birds stayed away from it. 
MULLIBOK: But you loved it. 
KIRA: I hated it. Because it'd grown so huge that its branches blotted out the sun for kellipates. And its roots buried themselves so deep in the soil nothing else could grow there. It was a big, selfish, annoying 
MULLIBOK: Nasty 
KIRA: Nasty, nasty old tree. 
MULLIBOK: Sounds to me like it had a lot of character. 
KIRA: A lot. 
MULLIBOK: So what happened? Did you cut it down? 
KIRA: I don't know yet. 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Kira. 
KIRA: Commander. 
SISKO [OC]: I'm preparing to beam down. 
KIRA: I don't think that's a good idea. 
SISKO [OC]: Major, either I'm coming down or you're coming up. 
MULLIBOK: He doesn't have much faith in you, does he? 
(Sisko beams into the garden and knocks on the door. Kira goes to open it) 
MULLIBOK: Nerys. This is still my home. 
(So Mullibok opens the door) 
[Outside the cottage]
MULLIBOK: What do you want? 
SISKO: I'm here to see Major Kira. 
MULLIBOK: Well she doesn't want to see you. Neither do I. 
KIRA: Wait a minute. Don't speak for me. 
SISKO: You know, you're causing a lot of trouble. 
MULLIBOK: I can't tell you how delighted I am to hear it. How many of your Federation uniforms are you planning to send after me? Forty? Fifty? 
SISKO: I don't think it'll come to that. 
MULLIBOK: That depends on how bad you want to get rid of me. 
SISKO: Mister Mullibok, I'm here because I'm concerned about my first officer. 
MULLIBOK: What about her? 
SISKO: By staying here, she's jeopardising her career. 
KIRA: Would you go back to bed. 
MULLIBOK: You quit telling me what to do! 
SISKO: Major, can I see you outside for a minute? 
MULLIBOK: Talk to him as long as you want. Why don't you tell him the story about your tree. 
KIRA: Be quiet. 
MULLIBOK: There was this big, ugly tree. 
SISKO: Go on. 
MULLIBOK: Never mind. 
(Mullibok goes back inside, and Sisko and Kira go over to the kiln) 
SISKO: I can see why you like him. 
KIRA: What can I do for you, Commander? 
SISKO: You and I have a material subsistence report to finish by the end of the week. 
KIRA: I don't think I'm going to be able to help you with that. 
SISKO: It's part of the liaison officer's job. 
KIRA: I know. 
SISKO: I don't like the prospect of having to break in a new one. 
(Kira resumes work on the kiln) 
SISKO: You have a job to do here, Major, and you're not doing it. 
KIRA: It's not as simple as that. 
SISKO: I'm not saying it's simple, I'm saying it can't wait. Look, I understand you're used to sympathising with the underdog. You've spent your life fighting to overcome impossible odds just like he's doing. But you have to realise something, Major. You're on the other side now. Pretty uncomfortable, isn't it? 
KIRA: It's awful. 
SISKO: When I first met you, Major, I thought you were hostile and arrogant. But I was wrong. Bajor needs you, and I need you. I like you and I don't want you to be hurt. So, as a friend, I'm here to remind you that his fate is already decided. Yours isn't. 
KIRA: Thank you. 
SISKO: There'll be a runabout standing by. One to beam up. 
[Cottage]
(Kira has fallen asleep in a chair. Mullibok's dreaming wakes her.) 
KIRA: Mullibok. Mullibok. 
MULLIBOK: No! You're hurting her. Let go. 
KIRA: Easy. 
MULLIBOK: Lussilla. 
KIRA: Easy. 
(She gives him a hypo.) 
MULLIBOK: I told you take your hands off me. 
KIRA: That's right. It's okay. Everything's going to be fine. 
MULLIBOK: Oh. it's you. 
KIRA: You were having a bad dream. 
MULLIBOK: Not just a bad dream, bad memories. I didn't say anything, did I? 
KIRA: No. Are you thirsty? 
MULLIBOK: No. 
KIRA: Hungry? 
MULLIBOK: No. Leave me alone. 
KIRA: Go back to sleep. 
MULLIBOK: Where are you going? 
KIRA: I'd like to get some sleep, too. 
MULLIBOK: Fine. Bring the chair over here. Well, are you my nurse, or not? 
KIRA: Is this better? 
MULLIBOK: Are you going to talk all night, or let me sleep? 
[Quark's]
(The boys are playing cards again in a quiet corner.) 
JAKE: Nog, I'm waiting. 
NOG: I'm thinking. 
JAKE: About what? 
NOG: Latinum. And how we don't have any. All we have is dirt. 
JAKE: How many times do I have to tell you. It's not dirt, it's land. 
NOG: What are we supposed to do with this land? 
JAKE: Sell it, I guess. 
NOG: To who? 
JAKE: Why do I have to think of everything. 
NOG: We should've kept the stem bolts. 
JAKE: Land is better than bolts. 
NOG: How do you know? 
JAKE: You can build things on land. 
NOG: You can't build anything without bolts. 
JAKE: Just throw down a card. 
QUARK: And you say they're based here on the station? 
ODO: That's correct. 
QUARK: The Noh-Jay Consortium. No, never heard of it. Why do you ask? 
ODO: I was contacted by a government official this morning. They want to build a reclamation facility on a strip of land owned by four different people. Three of them have agreed to sell, but the government doesn't know how to reach the fourth, this Noh-Jay Consortium. 
QUARK: You mean the government can't build without that one piece of land? 
ODO: Apparently not. 
QUARK: What a wonderful opportunity for profit. 
JAKE: I told you that land was better than bolts. 
QUARK: And you think that I'm part of this consortium? 
ODO: I think very little goes on here without your knowledge. 
QUARK: True. This time, however, someone has failed to include me. 
ODO: Are you telling me you're not involved? 
QUARK: Not yet, but that will be remedied. You can tell the Bajorans I'll be opening negotiations with them shortly. 
(Quark goes behind the bar and gets out a security rod) 
QUARK: Let's see. Who on this station is clever enough 
NOG: Uncle Quark? 
QUARK: Not now. 
NOG: But Uncle Quark. 
QUARK: Go sweep the floor. 
NOG: It's important. 
QUARK: All right, make it fast. 
NOG: I have a business opportunity that might interest you. It'll only cost you five bars of gold-pressed latinum. 
(Quark works it out) 
QUARK: Nog. 
[Cottage]
(Kira is woken noises outside, and Mullibok is not in bed.) 
[Outside the cottage]
(The kiln is almost finished) 
KIRA: Any pain? 
MULLIBOK: Just a little sore. I was starting to think you'd sleep all day. 
KIRA: That's because I was taking care of you all night. 
MULLIBOK: I don't recall asking you to that. I can handle this. Go get something to eat. 
KIRA: There isn't time. 
MULLIBOK: You're finally leaving? 
KIRA: Last one. 
(The final tile goes into place.) 
MULLIBOK: I didn't think I'd ever finish it. 
KIRA: It's finished. 
MULLIBOK: Nothing to do but fire it up. 
(While he does so, Kira goes in and fetches a bag and sleeping roll.) 
MULLIBOK: What's all this? 
KIRA: You've finished your work, now I have to finish mine. 
MULLIBOK: But you don't want to. 
KIRA: I could use a friend on Bajor. I'd like it to be you. 
MULLIBOK: As long as that cottage is standing, I stay here. 
(Kira blasts the kiln with her phaser) 
MULLIBOK: What the hell are you doing! 
KIRA: Saving your life. 
(She takes a fire brand and sets fire to the cottage. It catches frighteningly quickly.) 
MULLIBOK: So you chose your uniform over me after all. 
KIRA: That's not true. The time I've spent with you here has meant so much to me, but it's over. It's time we went on with our lives. Mine and yours. 
MULLIBOK: You say you're my friend. Prove it. Use that weapon on me. 
KIRA: I can't. 
MULLIBOK: If I leave here I'll die. 
KIRA: No, you won't. I won't let you. Two to beam up. 

