Episode Number: 486
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Return To Grace
Return To Grace
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 5 Feb, 1996
[Infirmary]
(Kira is sitting on a bed getting her jabs.) 
KIRA: Is all this really necessary? 
BASHIR: The Klingon invasion has all but destroyed the Cardassian health system. They're suffering outbreaks of all kinds of diseases and in epidemic proportions. Besides, you've only got twelve more inoculations to go. 
KIRA: Twelve? 
BASHIR: Sorry, but if you want to go to the conference. 
KIRA: I don't want to go. I'm no diplomat. Going to some obscure Cardassian outpost to share Bajoran intelligence about the Klingons isn't exactly something I'm good at. I don't know why I even agreed to go in the first place. 
BASHIR: You agreed to go because it was a personal request from the First Minister of Bajor. 
KIRA: Oh, it was a personal request all right. Shakaar took me to my favourite restaurant in Jalanda City, poured me glass after glass of spring wine, then took me to his home, and gave me a massage with Kolaish spice oil. 
BASHIR: Well, nice to know he's keeping in touch with his constituents. 
KIRA: It wasn't fair. I mean, I would have said yes to anything at that point. 
(Kira gasps and lies down on the bed.) 
BASHIR: What is it? 
KIRA: I'm seeing spots. 
BASHIR: Big green, swirling ones? 
KIRA: The size of Alvinian melons. 
BASHIR: And is the room beginning to spin? 
KIRA: Yes. 
BASHIR: Good. It means the vaccine's beginning to work. Everything'll settle down in a moment. 
WORF: Major, may I speak with you? 
KIRA: I'm not going anywhere. 
BASHIR: This one might make you a little queasy. If you have something to say to the major, you'd better make it fast. 
WORF: The Federation has some concerns about your upcoming meeting with the Cardassians. 
KIRA: So do I. 
WORF: There are certain technological advances that we have shared with both Bajor and the Klingons that we prefer to keep out of Cardassian hands. 
KIRA: Such as? 
WORF: Photon torpedo guidance systems, long-range sensors, enhanced warp core overdrives. This is a complete list. 
(Kira tries to focus on the PADD.) 
KIRA: Oh. Well, I think the Cardassians are going to be a little disappointed. 
WORF: Undoubtedly. 
KIRA: Is that all? 
WORF: Yes. 
KIRA: Oh good. I'll be right back. 
(Kira exits rapidly) 
BASHIR: I'm glad I'm not going to Cardassia. 
[Kira's quarters]
(Kira is packing.) 
KIRA: Come in. 
DUKAT: Hello, Major. 
KIRA: Dukat? What are you doing here? 
DUKAT: I'm to escort you to your meeting on Korma. 
KIRA: You're commanding the Groumall? 
DUKAT: Thanks to you. If you had not convinced me to bring my half-Bajoran daughter back to Cardassia, I'd still be Chief Military Advisor to the Detepa Council. 
KIRA: They demoted you. 
DUKAT: Exactly one week after my mother disowned me and my wife took our children and left. 
KIRA: You still did the right thing, Dukat. 
DUKAT: And as a reward for following your advice, I have been relegated to ferrying freight. And, occasionally, various foreign dignitaries such as yourself. 
KIRA: Look, if it makes you feel better to blame me, go right ahead. 
DUKAT: No, no, no. I blame no one but myself. I was indiscreet. I compromised myself and have been punished accordingly. If someone under my command had behaved so outrageously, I would do the same to him. Besides, I assure you, this is only a temporary setback. Everything I have lost, I will regain. It's only a matter of time. Now, may I take your bags? Please? 
[Stateroom]
(When the doorbell rings, Kira puts PADDs she's been working on into the wall safe.) 
KIRA: Come in. Ziyal! I didn't know you were on board. 
ZIYAL: Hello, Major. 
KIRA: Oh please, call me Nerys. So, I take it living on Cardassia didn't work out very well. 
ZIYAL: I wasn't exactly welcomed with open arms. There were some Cardassians who could see past the Bajoran ridges on my nose, but not many. 
KIRA: I'm sorry. I know it must have been very difficult for you. 
ZIYAL: The only good thing about living on Cardassia was being with my father. 
KIRA: I'm glad you two are getting along. 
ZIYAL: He's been wonderful. And so brave. He never tried to hide me away. He never acted like he was ashamed of me. We'd go out to dinner together, take long walks. 
KIRA: And now that he's been exiled? 
ZIYAL: Wherever he goes, I go. He's the only family I have. And this is the only home I need. 
KIRA: Your father isn't the only one who's brave. 
(Alarm) 
KIRA: What's that? 
ZIYAL: It's a battle drill. 
KIRA: On a freighter? 
[Freighter Bridge]
DAMAR: Target at four hundred thousand kilometres and closing. 
(Kira and Ziyal enter) 
DUKAT: Shields at maximum. Maintain scan. 
DAMAR: Engineering and Tactical, ready. Waiting on weapons, sir. 
DUKAT: What's taking so long? 
DAMAR: The phaser banks are still charging. 
DUKAT: I want those weapons online now! 
DAMAR: Phasers ready. 
DUKAT: Lock on target. 
DAMAR: Target set. 
DUKAT: Fire! 
(An asteroid is blown up.) 
DUKAT: Time? 
DAMAR: Three forty seven. 
DUKAT: That's pitiful. A crew of Ferengi scrap peddlers could do better than that. Select another target. We'll do it again. 
DAMAR: Aye, sir. 
DUKAT: This may be a lowly freighter, Major, but it's still a military vessel and will be run in a military manner. 
KIRA: You know, you could speed up your phaser recharge time by routing power through an anodyne capacitor. 
DUKAT: Thank you, Major. That's very helpful. And if we had an anodyne capacitor, we would use it. But we don't. Major, please forgive me. I do appreciate your suggestion. Any anger I may have expressed was due to my frustration over the complete inadequacy of this vessel. I hope you'll allow me to make it up to you. 
KIRA: What did you have in mind? 
DUKAT: I was hoping we might have dinner together. After all, it is Cardassian tradition for the commanding officer of a ship to entertain his guests. 
KIRA: Far be it from me to stand in the way of tradition. 
[Stateroom]
KIRA: This is Bajoran Spring Wine. 
DUKAT: My last bottle. It's one of the things I miss most about Bajor. 
KIRA: I talked to Ziyal. She's a lovely girl. 
DUKAT: I'm very glad that you convinced me not to kill her. 
KIRA: Despite everything that's happened? 
DUKAT: You may not believe this, Major, but when it comes to Ziyal I regret nothing. 
KIRA: It's good to hear that. 
DUKAT: By the way, Major. What is this I hear about you and Shakaar? 
KIRA: I don't know what you've heard. 
DUKAT: First it was Vedek Bareil, and now it's the head of the Bajoran government. You do like powerful men, don't you? 
KIRA: First of all, Shakaar's an old friend. Second of all, what business is it of yours? 
DUKAT: Let's just say it's further incentive for me to regain my former position. 
KIRA: It's good to see you haven't lost your sense of humour. 
DUKAT: I must say, I've always admired Shakaar's success with women. The intelligence file I kept on him during the occupation is filled with reports of his conquests. In fact, if you remember correctly, you were the only female in his resistance cell that he didn't charm. At least until now. 
KIRA: Is that what you kept track of during the occupation? No wonder you lost. 
DUKAT: More wine, Major? 
(Alarm) 
KIRA: Another drill? 
DUKAT: I didn't schedule one. 
[Freighter Bridge]
DAMAR: Sir, we're approaching the outpost on Korma, or what's left of it. 
DUKAT: What are you talking about? 
DAMAR: From what we can tell, it's been attacked. The planetary defence systems have been disabled. Every building has been destroyed. 
KIRA: How many casualties? 
DAMAR: There are no life signs. 
DUKAT: Then we have to assume that everyone at the outpost, including the Cardassian and the Bajoran dignitaries, is dead. 
DAMAR: Sir, I'm reading a subspace distortion bearing zero zero one mark one five. 
DUKAT: On screen. 
(A Klingon Bird of Prey decloaks) 
DUKAT: Klingons. 
DAMAR: They're scanning us, sir. 
DUKAT: Full power to forward shields. 
KIRA: At this distance your shields won't mean much. 
DAMAR: Sir, they've stopped scanning us. 
DUKAT: What are they doing? 
DAMAR: Nothing, sir. They don't seem to be in a hurry to do anything about us. 
KIRA: They don't think we're a threat, Dukat. 
DUKAT: Then why were they cloaked when we arrived? 
KIRA: They detected an incoming vessel, they didn't know what it was, so they hid. Now they know and they're unconcerned. 
DAMAR: The Klingon ship has lowered its shields. They're moving off at one quarter impulse. 
DUKAT: They'll pay for their arrogance. Charge phaser banks. 
KIRA: What are you doing, Dukat? You can't go up against a bird of prey! 
DUKAT: Must I remind you, Major, they just murdered your people as well as mine? 
KIRA: I know that, but getting all of us killed isn't going to change that. 
DUKAT: We're the only Cardassian ship in the area. I'm not going to let these Klingons escape unchallenged. 
KIRA: You attack them and all you're going to do is give them a little target practice. They're going to blow us to pieces with their first shot. 
DAMAR: Phaser banks charged. 
DUKAT: Lock phasers on target. 
DAMAR: Phasers locked. 
KIRA: Dukat! At least lock onto the underside of their hull. It's their weakest spot. 
DUKAT: You heard the Major. 
DAMAR: Target set. 
DUKAT: Fire! 
(The shot barely scratches the paint) 
DAMAR: Their shields were down and we didn't penetrate their hull. 
(The Klingon ship turns towards them.) 
DUKAT: Divert all power to forward shields. 
DAMAR: Aye, sir. 
(The Klingons sail serenely overhead.) 
DAMAR: They've gone to warp. 
DUKAT: Well, it would seem we're not worth destroying. 
KIRA: Lucky for us. 
DUKAT: I suppose from their point of view, there's no honour in destroying a worthless freighter. I have to inform Central Command. These Klingons have been operating behind our lines with impunity. Somebody has got to stop them. Someone else. 
KIRA: How close is the nearest Cardassian warship? 
DUKAT: Probably in the Dopa System somewhere. 
KIRA: That's almost three days away. By the time they get here, the Klingons'll be long gone. 
DUKAT: That's true, but what can we do about it? 
KIRA: We can go after the Klingons. 
DUKAT: A few moments ago, you were advising caution. 
KIRA: That's because a moments ago we were in no position to fight back. I have no intention of letting them get away with what they did. Now, you said scanners showed that the outpost disruptors were disabled not destroyed, right? 
DAMAR: Correct. 
KIRA: Dukat, do you think you'd be able to repair one of those disruptors? 
DUKAT: What would be the point? I doubt we can lure the Klingons back to the outpost. 
KIRA: Maybe not. But there's no reason we can't make a few alterations to your ship. 
DUKAT: What kind of alterations? 
[Cargo hold]
DUKAT: Here? In the cargo hold? 
KIRA: Why not? 
DUKAT: Because the outpost's planetary defense weapons are system five disruptors. They were never designed to operate aboard a moving spacecraft, and this cargo bays were never designed to hold them. 
KIRA: Dukat, you are going to have to stop thinking like a Cardassian military officer. 
DUKAT: And more like you? 
KIRA: More like a resistance fighter. You have got to make use of what you have. If you need a hammer and you don't have one, use a pipe. 
DUKAT: And you really think we can make those weapons operational on this ship? 
KIRA: It's worth a try. 
DUKAT: I suppose if we disable the tractor beam, we could reroute enough power to operate one of the disruptors. But those weapons are huge. What do we do with all this cargo? 
KIRA: Get rid of it. 
DUKAT: All of it? 
KIRA: I realise it's traditional for a Cardassian captain to take a percentage of the haul, but you are going to have to shed a lot of traditions if you are serious about fighting the Klingons. 
DUKAT: Some traditions are hard to break. 
KIRA: You'll get used to it. 
DUKAT: You never cease to impress me, Major. I've got a lot to learn from you. 
[Freighter Bridge]
DAMAR: Target at five hundred thousand kilometres. 
KIRA: System five disruptor's online. 
DUKAT: Open the cargo bay doors. 
DAMAR: Doors opening. 
KIRA: Telemetry lock confirmed. 
DUKAT: Are you ready? Diverting all power to your station. 
DAMAR: Two hundred thousand and closing. 
DUKAT: Fire! 
(The ship shakes and the asteroid goes KaBOOM!) 
DUKAT: Very impressive, Major. 
KIRA: Don't be too impressed yet, Dukat. We still have some problems. Firing the disruptor ruptured power relays and plasma circuits all over the ship. 
DAMAR: We have small plasma leaks on levels two, four and five. 
DUKAT: I want those leaks fixed immediately. 
SOLDIER: Aye, sir. 
KIRA: We're going to have to do something about that recoil. 
DUKAT: Major, I'm confident you'll have that disruptor running so smoothly it wouldn't wake a sleeping child. 
KIRA: Why is it when you smile, I want to leave the room? 
DUKAT: I suppose it's because of my overwhelming charm. But you must admit it is rather amusing. When we do destroy that bird of prey, it will no doubt go a long way toward restoring my reputation. And I have you to thank for it. 
KIRA: I'm trying not to think about that. 
DUKAT: Major, why are you so reluctant to face the obvious? We make an excellent team. 
KIRA: We are not a team, Dukat, and we have nothing in common. The only reason I'm helping you is because those Klingons killed fifteen Bajoran diplomats. 
DUKAT: There were Cardassians at that outpost too. 
KIRA: Maybe. But all you care about is redeeming yourself in the eyes of the Cardassian government. You have seen an opportunity for advancement and you are grabbing it. 
DUKAT: You judge me too harshly, Major. Maybe I am seeking to regain my former position. One which I earned through hard work, dedication and sacrifice. But redemption is not my sole motivation. I care about my people and I don't intend to allow the Klingons to get away with murdering them. I'm a much more complicated man than you give me credit for. 
KIRA: If that's true, I suppose I prefer simpler men. 
DUKAT: Like Shakaar? It amazes me that a woman as intelligent and sophisticated as you could be attracted to such a lumbering, simplistic field hand. I mean, what could the two of you possibly talk about? 
KIRA: That lumbering field hand is the First Minister of Bajor. And he knows more about how to talk to me than you ever will. 
DUKAT: How can you be so sure? After all, you don't know me well enough to make a comparison. 
KIRA: I don't want to know you well enough. And if you want to keep working with me, I suggest you stick to business. 
DUKAT: I'm sorry, Major. I didn't mean any harm. I was only making conversation. Damar, set another target. We'll test our new weapon as soon as the Major's ready. Let's see if we can't work out our problems. At least the ones we're having with the disruptor. 
[Stateroom]
(Ziyal is learning to shoot) 
KIRA: This is a standard issue, Cardassian phase-disruptor rifle. It has a four point seven megajoule power capacity, three millisecond recharge two beam settings. 
ZIYAL: How do you know so much about Cardassian weapons? 
KIRA: We captured a lot of them during the occupation. It's a good weapon, solid, simple. You can drag it through the mud and it'll still fire. Now this. (Federation phaser rifle.) This is an entirely different animal. Federation standard issue. It's a little less powerful, but it's got a more options. Sixteen beam settings. Fully autonomous recharge, multiple target acquisition, gyro stabilised, the works. It's a little more complicated, so it's not as good a field weapon. Too many things can go wrong with it. 
ZIYAL: I can see why my father likes having you around. 
KIRA: I think you should stick with the Cardassian rifle. It's smaller, easier to use, and if we get boarded I don't want you to have to think too much about the weapon you're using. 
ZIYAL: You don't like my father much, do you? 
KIRA: No. I don't. 
ZIYAL: I understand. He did some very bad things during the occupation. 
KIRA: Yes, he did. 
ZIYAL: It bothers him, you know. 
KIRA: Does it. 
ZIYAL: Very much. He talks about it sometimes. He'd never admit it to anyone else, but he thinks the occupation was a mistake. 
KIRA: Somehow I don't think he'd say that if the Cardassians had won. 
ZIYAL: Maybe not. But maybe losing made him a better person. 
KIRA: Then a lot of innocent people died for his education. 
ZIYAL: I know. I think about that a lot. But when I look at my father, I have a hard time seeing a murderer. 
KIRA: And when I look at him, I have a hard time seeing anything else. You're his daughter. 
ZIYAL: My father says that the two of you have a lot in common. That you both did things during the war that you regret. That's why he cares so much about what you think of him. 
KIRA: Ziyal, what your father wants from me is forgiveness. That's one thing I can never give him. Now, I think we should concentrate on getting you comfortable with this weapon. 
[Freighter Bridge]
KIRA: What about the Cardassian base on the fourth moon of Rakal? 
DUKAT: It's subterranean, much too fortified to be a viable target for a bird of prey. It would take a Vor'Cha class cruiser to do any real damage. How about the station on Amleth Prime? 
KIRA: The Amleth system's located inside an emission nebula. The Klingon cloaking device would be useless. 
DUKAT: I know where they'll go next. Loval. 
KIRA: That's on the other side of the sector. 
DUKAT: A long way from the Cardassian fleet. 
KIRA: From what it says here, Loval is mainly a civilian outpost with a small subspace relay station. The Klingons have been going after a lot bigger prizes. 
DUKAT: What it says there is not exactly true. Loval is also a weapons research installation, which is supposed to be a closely guarded secret. Now considering the targets the Klingons have hit so far, I think we've underestimated their intelligence network. 
KIRA: Sounds like a choice target. 
DUKAT: Loval it is. The question is, even if we're right, can we stop them? 
KIRA: All we need is one good shot with the new disruptor. 
DUKAT: Which won't be easy to get considering they'll be cloaked. 
KIRA: We don't have to find them. We have to make them come to us. 
DUKAT: Lure them in. Make them think that we're a helpless freighter. 
KIRA: We have to make them think that we have valuable cargo aboard. 
DUKAT: How does refined dilithium crystal sound? I can get Damar to modify the subspace transceiver array to emit a false dilithium signal. Now if I know the Klingons, they'll lock their tractor beam on us and try to take our cargo. 
KIRA: And we'll have a little surprise waiting for them. 
DUKAT: Yes. 
KIRA: Not bad. 
DUKAT: I told you we make a good team, Major. You are as insightful a woman as you are intriguing. 
KIRA: I thought we agreed to keep this strictly business. 
DUKAT: Major, is it my imagination, or do you have a hard time accepting compliments? 
KIRA: I have a hard time accepting compliments from you. 
DUKAT: Well, I'll try to restrain my enthusiasm, but I can't make you any promises. 
KIRA: We'd better get to Loval before the Klingons do. 
DUKAT: Damar. 
DAMAR: Sir? 
DUKAT: Set a course for Loval. Maximum warp. 
DAMAR: Aye, sir. 
(Later) 
DAMAR: Loval system within scanning range, sir. 
DUKAT: Any sign of them? 
DAMAR: No, sir. 
KIRA: If they're not there now, they'll be there soon enough. 
DUKAT: Begin modifications to the subspace transceiver array. 
(Orbiting the planet.) 
DUKAT: We soldiers spend a lot of time waiting, don't we, Major? It's not easy to keep your mind from drifting. 
KIRA: I don't usually have any trouble concentrating, unless I'm being distracted. 
DUKAT: Lately, when my mind wanders, I find myself thinking more and more about Gul Marratt. Do you know him? Very dashing. One of Cardassia's rising stars. Graduate of the Cardassian Military Academy, smooth-talking junior member of the Detepa Council, and like your friend Shakaar, quite a lady's man. Especially with other officer's wives. 
KIRA: Including yours? 
DUKAT: Mmm. A year ago he wouldn't have dared, but now? I think the first thing I do when I'm returned to power is to demote him. Assign him to the Cardassian Embassy on Breen. I hear it's bitter cold on Breen. And we Cardassians do despise the cold. 
DAMAR: Sir, I've got something. 
DUKAT: On screen. 
(A bird of prey decloaks) 
DUKAT: Well, Major, it seems fate has smiled on our little plan. 
DAMAR: They're scanning us. 
DUKAT: Good. Let's hope they take the bait. 
DAMAR: Sir, they've locked their disruptors on us. 
DUKAT: They haven't fired. Which means they could be interested in our cargo. 
DAMAR: They're hailing us, sir. Demanding our surrender. 
KIRA: They're interested. Now let's see if you can make them bite. 
DUKAT: On screen. 
K'TEMANG [on viewscreen]: Identify yourself. 
DUKAT: I'm Gul Dukat, Commander of the Cardassian freighter Groumall. Who are you? 
K'TEMANG [on viewscreen]: What is your cargo and destination? 
DUKAT: We are carrying replicator and transporter parts to the Dopa System. 
K'TEMANG [on viewscreen]: You're lying! 
DUKAT: I assure you, Captain. 
K'TEMANG [on viewscreen]: I'm confiscating your ship and its cargo. 
DUKAT: On whose authority? 
K'TEMANG [on viewscreen]: On the authority of the Klingon Empire and the disruptors I have pointed at your vessel. 
(Transmission ends.) 
DUKAT: Convincing, wasn't I? 
KIRA: I'll let you know. 
DAMAR: They've locked their tractor beam on us. 
DUKAT: Wait for my signal. Wait. Open the cargo bay doors. 
KIRA: Doors opening. 
DUKAT: Fire! 
(BOOM) 
DAMAR: We've breached their hull! Their impulse engines are down. They're adrift. 
DUKAT: Excellent. 
DAMAR: They're re-locking their disruptors on us. 
DUKAT: All power to forward shields. 
(BANG and lots of consoles explode in showers of sparks.) 
DUKAT: Damage? 
DAMAR: Both shields are down to twenty percent. We can't sustain another hit. 
DUKAT: I think it's time to improvise. 
[Klingon bridge]
K'TEMANG: I want all power to the disruptors now! You. Get down to the weapons room and find out what's taking them so long. 
[Klingon corridor]
(Kira and Dukat beam in behind a repair team, shoot two and beat up the others.) 
DUKAT: Major! 
KIRA: Just give me a minute. 
(Kira works at a console.) 
DUKAT: Hurry, Major. 
KIRA: Quiet. I need to concentrate. 
[Klingon bridge]
K'TEMANG: Lock target. Prepare to fire. 
(And all the Klingons are beamed off their bridge and onto the Groumall. Dukat and Kira enter.) 
DUKAT: You are a magician, Major. 
KIRA: There's nothing magical about it. Not when you know Klingon transporter codes. 
(Kira checks internal sensors.) 
KIRA: It worked. All our people are here and all thirty six Klingons are on the freighter. I can just imagine that Klingon Captain explaining this to his superiors. 
DUKAT: He won't get the opportunity. 
(Dukat fires the disrupters, the Groumall goes KaBOOM!) 
KIRA: Was that necessary? 
DUKAT: You're the terrorist. You tell me. 
(Damar, Ziyal and two others enter.) 
DAMAR: Weapons secured, sir. 
DUKAT: Excellent. 
ZIYAL: So is Engineering. 
DUKAT: Well done. Well, Major, quite a prize we've taken. The first Klingon bird of prey ever to be captured by Cardassia. 
KIRA: I think I just found a bigger prize. It looks like we've got the target priorities of all Klingon raiders in Cardassian space. 
DUKAT: I'll contact Central Command and inform them of our success. I think I'll request my Legate title be reinstated, effective immediately. Get me Central Command. No, on second thought, this is too important for them. I want to speak to the Chairman of the Detepa Council himself on a secure channel. 
DAMAR: I can't do that from here, sir. The communication terminals on the bridge are down but I could re-route it to the Captain's quarters. 
DUKAT: Good. Do so. Then make the repairs. I want this ship fully operational as soon as possible. 
DAMAR: Aye, sir. 
(Later) 
KIRA: Ziyal, do you see the phase compensator in the backup plasma manifold? 
ZIYAL [OC]: What's it look like? 
DAMAR: Perhaps I should go help her. Klingon technology is 
KIRA: Odd. Good idea. Hang on, Ziyal. Help's on the way. 
(Damar leaves) 
ZIYAL [OC]: Understood. 
KIRA: You know something, Dukat? These computer logs are even more valuable than I thought. They contain status reports from Klingon ships and outposts throughout Cardassian space. With information like this, Cardassia could launch a major counterattack against the Klingons. 
DUKAT: They could, but they won't. 
KIRA: Why not? 
DUKAT: The Detepa Council has something else in mind. They've ordered me not to engage the Klingons in any further conflict. The Council is looking for a diplomatic solution. They've ordered me to return to Cardassia Prime to resume my post as Military Advisor. 
KIRA: I thought that's what you wanted. 
DUKAT: It was. But what is the point of being a Military Advisor to a government that won't fight. 
KIRA: You can change their minds. Convince your fellow Cardassians to go on the offensive. 
DUKAT: No, I'd be wasting my breath. They wouldn't listen to me. No one wants to fight. There was a time when the mere mention of my race inspired fear. And now we're beaten people, afraid to fight back because we don't want to lose what little is left. 
KIRA: That's not the Cardassians I know. 
DUKAT: What Cardassians? Don't you see, Major? They're paralysed. They're beaten and defeated. I am the only Cardassian left. And if no one else will stand against the Klingons, I will. 
KIRA: Look, Dukat, I know you're angry, but maybe you ought to think about what you're proposing. I mean, you can't go to war against the whole Klingon Empire with one bird of prey. 
DUKAT: Why not? Your people fought against us for fifty years with much less sophisticated weaponry than this. And you beat us. 
KIRA: It's not the same. The Bajoran people were united. We were all fighting for the same goal. You and your crew would be out there alone. 
DUKAT: Maybe at first, but perhaps our actions would inspire others to join the struggle. 
KIRA: It's not that easy, Dukat. 
DUKAT: I know. Which is why I need you. 
KIRA: Me? 
DUKAT: Who else? You know how to organise a resistance cell. You're an expert in terrorist tactics. You have close ties with Bajoran and Federation officials. And besides all that, it would give you a chance to do what you were meant to do. 
KIRA: No, thanks. I've already got a job. 
DUKAT: What do you mean? On that space station? We both know your talents are being wasted there. Coordinating docking assignments and leading training exercises. On Deep Space Nine, you're nothing but a bureaucrat, an administrator. If you come with me you can be a soldier again. Think about it, Major. The chance to fight against a superior foe in a righteous cause, to protect a defeated and broken people from a cruel aggressor. You know as well as I do that if Cardassia falls, Bajor is next. Help me stop the Klingons before you become their next target. 
KIRA: You're really serious about this. 
DUKAT: Absolutely. Look, Major, I'm not asking you to like me or to be my friend. I'm asking you to join me. To fight at my side. You know what I'm doing is right, and it's what you want to do as well. I know that our past makes it difficult for you to accept me as an ally. I also know that every fibre of your being is telling you to say no, no, no, but somewhere I know there's a yes. You need to listen to that yes. Not for my sake, not for Cardassia's, not even for Bajor's, but for your sake. 
DAMAR: We've completed the repairs on the navigational system and the cloaking device. 
DUKAT: Good. We'll leave as soon as you have it online. Think about it, Major. Think about the possibilities. 
[Klingon corridor]
ZIYAL: Nerys! I want to show you something. 
(Ziyal hands Kira a Klingon dagger.) 
ZIYAL: Go ahead, attack me. 
KIRA: What are you talking about? 
ZIYAL: It's okay. I know what I'm doing. Damar showed me a good trick. Try to stab me with the knife. 
(Ziyal turns into the stab and tries to throw Kira, but gets her feet kicked out and ends up on her back with the dagger at her throat.) 
ZIYAL: I guess it wasn't such a good trick. 
KIRA: The best way to survive a knife fight is to never get in one. 
ZIYAL: If I'm going to help my father, I have to be prepared for anything. Show me what you did again. Please. I know I have a lot to learn. I've been practicing with the disruptor rifle but I need to know how to defend myself in hand-to-hand combat. I was lucky not to have to fight when we boarded this ship. I may not be so lucky next time. 
KIRA: Chances are you won't be. Fighting the Klingons is going to take more than knowing how to fire a rifle or use a knife. You have to learn how to be ruthless. You have to learn to hate the Klingons even more than you hated the Breen. 
ZIYAL: Whatever it takes, I will do it. But I'm going to need your help. 
KIRA: You're right. You do need my help. 
[Klingon bridge]
DUKAT: I am disappointed, Major. 
KIRA: But not surprised. 
DUKAT: Tell me, were you even tempted? 
KIRA: Not really. 
DUKAT: I thought I was so eloquent. 
KIRA: You had your moments. But the fact of the matter is I've already been where you're going. I've lived the life you're choosing. Fighting hit and run, always outgunned, living on hate and adrenaline. It's not much of a life, and it eats away at you so that every day a little bit of you dies. 
DUKAT: Very inspiring, Major. But I don't have any choice in this. No more than you had when you fought against us. 
KIRA: No, I don't suppose you do. 
DUKAT: Well, all that's left is for you to wish me luck. 
KIRA: That's not quite all. There's still Ziyal. 
DUKAT: What about her? 
KIRA: The life you're choosing isn't for her. She deserves better. 
DUKAT: She deserves to be with her father. You taught me that. I love her. 
KIRA: I know you do. And that's why you've got to let her go. 
DUKAT: Go? Where? She's not welcome on Cardassia or Bajor. This is the only place she belongs. 
KIRA: That's not true. She could come to Deep Space Nine with me. 
DUKAT: Are you serious? 
KIRA: She's a remarkable young woman. I'll make sure she's okay. 
DUKAT: Why? Why do you care so much? 
KIRA: Because she reminds me of myself, and I don't want her to go through what I went through. And neither do you. 
[Ops]
DAX: Captain, a Klingon bird of prey just decloaked off the station. 
SISKO: On screen. 
O'BRIEN: They're hailing us. 
SISKO: Let's find out what they want. 
O'BRIEN: Sir, it's Gul Dukat. 
SISKO: On a Klingon ship? 
O'BRIEN: He's asking permission to dock. 
[Klingon bridge]
DUKAT: When this is all over, I'll come back for you. I promise you that. 
ZIYAL: I know you will. 
DUKAT: Major. 
KIRA: I'll take good care of her. 
DUKAT: I know. Well, Major, it appears that whether you like it or not, our lives have become deeply intertwined. 
KIRA: That really pleases you, doesn't it? 
DUKAT: Pleases me? Major, it gives me reason to live. 
[Promenade - upper level]
(The Bird of Prey turns away and cloaks) 
KIRA: Come. I'll show you to your quarters. 
ODO: Welcome back, Major. 
KIRA: Odo, this is Tora Ziyal. 
ODO: Gul Dukat's daughter. 
ZIYAL: That's right. 
KIRA: She's going to be living here on the station with us for a while. 
ODO: Ah. 
KIRA: I'll tell you all about it. 
ODO: I certainly hope so. 

