Episode Number: 571
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - When It Rains...
When It Rains...
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 3 May, 1999
[Wardroom]
(Tactical map 4364W showing Jem'Hadar movements, and where Ferenginar is relative to Cardassia and AR558.) 
O'BRIEN: Basically we stumbled onto it by accident. At Chin'toka, our entire fleet was disabled when the Breen engaged their energy dampening weapon. Three hundred and eleven ships, Federation, Romulan, and Klingon, all lost power. 
SISKO: But one didn't. A Bird of Prey called the Ki'tang. 
ROSS: Why? What was different about the Ki'tang? 
O'BRIEN: We're not really sure. The only thing we can figure is that just prior to the engagement, their Chief Engineer adjusted the tritium intermix to compensate for a containment problem in the warp core. 
MARTOK: I've ordered every ship in the Klingon fleet to adjust its reactor the same way. 
ROMULAN: Our vessels are of a different design. Can this technique be adapted to protect them as well? 
SISKO: Unfortunately, no. Your ships are still vulnerable, and so are ours. 
O'BRIEN: I've sent everything we know about the Breen weapon to the Romulan Ministry of Science and to Starfleet Engineering, but realistically, it's going take be a while before they can figure out a way to protect our ships. 
SISKO: Thank you, Mister O'Brien. 
(O'Brien leaves.) 
ROSS: Well, gentlemen, it seems as if the Klingon fleet is the only thing that stands between us and the Dominion. 
ROMULAN: What have we come to? 
MARTOK: By tomorrow, we'll have fifteen hundred Klingon vessels ready for deployment. 
ROMULAN: With the Breen, the Cardassians and the Jem'Hadar, you're still outnumbered twenty to one. 
MARTOK: I am aware of that, General. 
SISKO: Obviously the Klingons can't go head to head with the Dominion, but they may be able to keep them distracted. 
MARTOK: We'll operate in small battle groups, going in under cloak, engaging the enemy, and trying to provoke them into pursuit. 
SISKO: With any luck, they'll be able to keep the Dominion off balance and prevent them from launching an offensive. 
ROMULAN: For how long? They can't keep them at bay forever. 
SISKO: No, they can't. But fortunately we're not the only ones the Dominion has to contend with right now. 
ROSS: Damar's resistance movement. 
ROMULAN: What's left of them. Half his troops were killed in their assault on Rondac. 
SISKO: They may have failed to capture Rondac, but their attack sent a message to the Cardassian people. If the rebels can show them that they have a chance of succeeding, their support will grow. 
ROMULAN: Does the rebellion have a chance of succeeding? 
SISKO: Yes, but they have to adjust their tactics. Concentrate on small scale hit and run attacks, sabotaging key facilities. 
ROSS: Damar's a by the book soldier. Does he have any experience waging this kind of campaign? 
SISKO: No, he doesn't. Which is why we have to send him someone who does. 
[Captain's office]
KIRA: You want me to go behind enemy lines and teach a bunch of Cardassians how to be resistance fighters? 
SISKO: I'm aware of the irony. But the tactics you used to drive the Cardassians off Bajor are exactly what the situation calls for. 
KIRA: But to work with Damar? When he killed Ziyal, he murdered an innocent girl that I considered a part of my family. 
SISKO: You're going to have to put your personal feelings aside. Whether you like Damar or not is irrelevant. We need him. The Dominion knows they have to stop his rebellion before it spreads, and it's up to you to see that they don't. It's as simple as that. 
KIRA: Yes, sir. I understand that Damar and his men went into hiding after the attack on Rondac. Any idea how to locate them? 
SISKO: I suggest you talk to Mister Garak about that. 
KIRA: Garak? 
SISKO: He still has contacts on Cardassia. If I were you, I'd ask him to join your team. He could be useful. 
KIRA: Damar and Garak. It should be an interesting mission. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: It's very difficult to keep a supply of synthetic organs on hand in a battlefield situation. You never know how many livers you're going to need, or how many hearts. 
ODO: I can imagine. But what does that have to do with me? 
BASHIR: Well, the Holy Grail of organ replacement is to be able to find a way to inject the patient with undifferentiated tissue so that can become whatever organ is needed. The only problem is 
ODO: Doctor, get to the point. 
BASHIR: I need to borrow a cup of goo. 
ODO: Excuse me? 
BASHIR: Please? I'll give it back. You see, I need to study your morphogenic matrix so that I can synthesise organic tissue that can change form the way your cells do. 
ODO: To use for organ replacement. 
BASHIR: Exactly. 
ODO: Can't you just scan me or something? 
BASHIR: I need a sample. It's for a good cause. 
ODO: All right, Doctor. 
(Odo puts his finger into the beaker and pours off part of himself.) 
BASHIR: Just a tad more. Thank you. 
ODO: I'm going to want that back as soon as Kira and I return from our mission. 
BASHIR: Oh, you're going with her? 
ODO: She thought I might be useful. 
BASHIR: When do you leave? 
ODO: As soon as Garak can locate Damar. 
[Winn's office]
(Winn is reporting a missing person to the authorities.) 
WINN: I'm very concerned. It's not like Solbor to disappear this way. Please do whatever it takes to find him. 
SECURITY: Yes, Eminence. 
(Bajoran security leaves.) 
DUKAT: Well done. I almost believed you myself. 
WINN: How like a Cardassian to find amusement in an old man's death. You don't know how much I regret having to kill him. 
DUKAT: He was going to expose us. No one can be allowed to stand in our way. 
WINN: Remember your place, Dukat. 
DUKAT: I thought my place was in your bed. 
WINN: That was before I knew who you were. 
DUKAT: Adami, I'm not the same man I was during the occupation. The Pah wraiths have changed me. 
WINN: But they can't change what you did. Do you really think I could let myself be touched by a man whose hands are stained with the blood of my people? 
DUKAT: When we so release the Pah wraiths from the fire caves, your hands will be stained as well. 
WINN: The Pah wraiths will spare those whom they find worthy. The rest are of no consequence. 
(She sits down to read the Kosst Amojan.) 
DUKAT: You've been studying that for days. Perhaps I could help? 
WINN: The text of the Kosst Amojan is for my eyes alone. 
DUKAT: Well, have you learned what we have to do to release the Pah wraiths? 
WINN: Only that it's not a simple matter. Leave me. I've had enough of your distractions. 
[Captain's office]
ROSS: When is Gowron's ship due to arrive? 
SISKO: In the morning. 
ROSS: Martok seems a little nervous about the ceremony. 
SISKO: Chancellor Gowron is travelling all the way from Kronos to induct him into the Order of Kahless. I'd be nervous, too. 
(Doorbell.) 
SISKO: Come in. 
KIRA: Good news. Garak was able to contact Damar. 
GARAK: He's provided us with his location and has requested assistance as soon as possible. 
KIRA: So with your permission, I'd like to depart first thing tomorrow. 
SISKO: By all means. 
GARAK: There is one other thing. 
SISKO: Yes, Mister Garak? 
GARAK: Damar expressed concern when I told him that Colonel Kira would be leading this mission. 
KIRA: Well if he wants to defeat the Dominion he's going to have to put his personal feelings aside. 
GARAK: He's certainly willing to do that. He knows the value of your skills. Damar is concerned that his men will see your uniform as an affront. We Cardassians are a proud people. Losing Bajor to a ragtag band of terrorists, no offence, was a humiliation. Simply put, taking on a Bajoran officer as an advisor would undermine his authority. 
ROSS: I'm sorry, Colonel. We'll have to find someone else to head up the mission. 
SISKO: No, sir. Colonel Kira is the best person for the job. There's another way around this problem. 
[Security office]
ODO: I don't know. 
(Kira is in Starfleet uniform and Garak is adjusting over the fit.) 
ODO: Do you really think it'll make a difference to the Cardassians that you've been given a Starfleet commission? You're still a Bajoran. 
KIRA: A Bajoran with the authority to speak on behalf of the Federation. 
GARAK: You realise you're going to have to do something about your uniform as well? 
ODO: I was afraid you were going to say that. (He morphs into civilian clothes.) Well? 
GARAK: It's a little drab. 
ODO: This is how I appeared when I worked for the Cardassians. 
GARAK: Ah, well, it should put them at ease, anyway. I wonder if Doctor Bashir could help us with that nose of yours? 
KIRA: I'm only willing to go so far. Damar's men are just going to have to get used to the idea of having me around. 
GARAK: Oh, they'll tolerate you, to a point. If I were you, I'd watch my back. I'll see you in the morning. 
[Damar's base]
(On a drab brown planet, the underground has gone underground, literally.) 
RUSOT: You see the problem. 
DAMAR: Our food supplies are running low. 
RUSOT: We'll have to cut back on rations until we get hold of some food replicators. 
DAMAR: When I spoke to Garak, I told him to bring some. 
RUSOT: Federation food replicators? 
DAMAR: We're in no position to turn down help, no matter where it comes from. 
RUSOT: Taking help from the Federation is bad enough, but having to take it from that Bajoran terrorist. 
DAMAR: Kira Nerys has certain skills she's willing to teach us. Skills we need if we're going to defeat the Dominion. 
RUSOT: I can't believe what I'm hearing. When we were stationed on Terok Nor, you used spent hours telling me how much you despised her. 
DAMAR: I did hate her. But that's a luxury I can no longer afford and neither can you. I need your support in this, my friend. 
[Airlock]
SISKO: General, Mister Worf. 
(The airlock opens and Gowron comes out.) 
SISKO: Welcome to Deep Space Nine, Chancellor. 
GOWRON: It's been too long, Captain. 
SISKO: You know Admiral Ross. 
ROSS: We met at Khitomer. 
GOWRON: Admiral, of course. Martok The man I came to honour! The son of Mogh. 
WORF: Chancellor. 
GOWRON: They say you've made him part of your House. 
MARTOK: It's true. 
GOWRON: Then what is past is past. If Martok considers you his brother, that's all I need to know. Come! I've brought a barrel of the finest bloodwine and it must be drunk tonight! 
(The Klingons leave.) 
MARTOK: The vintage. Twenty three oh nine, I take it? 
SISKO: I guess we're not invited. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: Anyway, I finally tracked her down to Quark's and I asked her flat out, 'Ezri, why are you avoiding me?' She was just about to answer when I got called away. 
O'BRIEN: I haven't noticed her avoiding you. Are you sure you're not imagining things? 
BASHIR: Our paths haven't crossed in days. 
O'BRIEN: Well, it's a big station. The truth is, you want to spend time with her, so it seems that she's never around. 
BASHIR: There's something going on, and I'm going to find out what it is when she gets here. I told her I'd like to discuss the results of her last medical exam. 
O'BRIEN: Isn't that unethical, or something? 
BASHIR: Well. 
O'BRIEN: Is that Odo? 
BASHIR: Part of him, anyway. 
O'BRIEN: Oh, never mind. I don't want to know. 
BASHIR: Computer, begin a morphogenic enzyme analysis. 
(Ezri enters) 
EZRI: Hi. 
BASHIR: Ezri. 
O'BRIEN: Hi. 
EZRI: You wanted to see me? 
BASHIR: Yes. Come on in. 
(Bashir gives O'Brien a 'get out' look.) 
O'BRIEN: It was good running into you. I haven't seen you in days. 
(O'Brien leaves.) 
BASHIR: So. 
EZRI: You said something about my test results? 
BASHIR: Of course. Here it is. You know, we never finished our conversation the other day. 
EZRI: Our conversation? 
BASHIR: Yes, in Quark's. You were telling me why you were avoiding me. 
EZRI: Well, I guess now is as good a time as any. Well, it goes back to when Worf and I were held prisoner by the Breen. We spent a lot of time together. 
BASHIR: Naturally. 
EZRI: And you can imagine that it would bring up all sorts of old feelings. 
BASHIR: Sure. 
EZRI: And, well, one thing led to another, and 
BASHIR: Ezri, you don't have to say any more. 
EZRI: But I want to. 
BASHIR: No, really. I wish you both all the happiness in the world. 
EZRI: Who? 
BASHIR: You and Worf. 
EZRI: No, Julian, that's not 
(The computer beeps.) 
BASHIR: Ezri, there's no need to explain. 
EZRI: No, you don't understand. What I'm trying to tell you is that I'm in love with 
(But the results of viral analysis 303 have Bashir's full attention.) 
BASHIR: Oh, my God. 
EZRI: What? Julian, what's wrong? 
[Runabout]
BASHIR [on monitor]: I was running a scan on the sample you left when I noticed something unusual. 
ODO: Unusual in what way? 
BASHIR [on monitor]: The disease that's killing your people. You're infected. My guess is you became infected the last time you Linked with the Female Shape shifter. 
KIRA: Are you sure about this? He doesn't have any symptoms. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: So far. But from what I can tell, the virus is replicating quickly and it may not be long before symptoms start to surface. 
KIRA: We have to get you back to the station. 
ODO: No. We have a mission to accomplish. I intend to see it through. 
KIRA: Odo. 
BASHIR [on monitor]: It's all right. At this point there's not much I can do. But I feel confident that's going to change. 
ODO: What do you mean? 
BASHIR [on monitor]: I'm running a series of tests on the sample that you left me, and I've ask Starfleet Medical to send the results from the tests they ran on you a few years ago. By comparing the results, I might be able to figure out how the virus works, and that may well lead to a cure. 
KIRA: Thank you, Julian. 
(Transmission ends.) 
ODO: We should be crossing into Dominion space in just a few minutes. 
GARAK: I'd better scan for enemy patrols. 
[Winn's office]
(Dukat sneaks into the dark, empty room to have a look at the Kosst Amojan. He's got the key from her somehow.) 
DUKAT: What have you been keeping from me, my sweet? What dark secrets? 
(A symbol glows then sends energy into his eyes. Dukat screams and Winn enters from her adjoining bedroom.) 
WINN: Dukat? 
DUKAT: Adami, help me. 
WINN: You fool! 
DUKAT: I can't see. 
WINN: I warned you. The text of the Kosst Amojan is for my eyes alone. 
[Wardroom]
(Drops of blood fall onto the medallion in a brass bowl. They are Gowron's.) 
GOWRON: Today we honour our brother Martok in the manner Kahless taught us. 
(Gowron gives the dagger to Martok.) 
MARTOK: I accept this honour in the name of the House of Martok and I ask only to be allowed to continue to serve the Empire. 
(Martok cuts his palm.) 
KLINGONS: Martok, Martok. 
SISKO: We're next. 
KLINGONS: Martok, Martok, Martok. 
ROSS: You're kidding. 
KLINGONS: Martok, Martok. 
SISKO: I wish I were. 
KLINGONS: Martok, Martok. 
(Afterwards they are scooping tankards of bloodwine out of the barrel.) 
WORF: You have done well. 
MARTOK: Thank you for the help, my friend. 
ROSS: It still stings 
SISKO: That's what the bloodwine's for. Congratulations, General. 
GOWRON: Martok! How does it feel to be the most famous warrior in the Empire? 
MARTOK: I am grateful for the opportunity to serve. 
GOWRON: And you've served well. But you've borne the burden of this war for a long time. 
MARTOK: I do it gladly. And I'll keep on fighting until the victory is ours. 
GOWRON: No, my friend. I can't ask you to carry this weight forever. It's time for me to take a more active role in this war. As of today, I'm assuming direct command of our forces. 
MARTOK: Chancellor, I don't understand. Are you unsatisfied with the way I have performed my duties? 
GOWRON: Would I have given you the Star of Kahless if I was not satisfied? You should be happy you're a warrior again. No more meetings, no more reports to file. You'll be out there, savouring the heat of battle. I envy you. I intend to see an end to this war and soon. The Dominion will rue the day they heard my name! 
[Infirmary]
(There's a nervous officer on the monitor.) 
BASHIR: No, I don't want to talk to Lieutenant Douglas. I've already talked to Lieutenant Douglas. I need a copy of these test results. My patient's life is at stake. 
WELDON [on monitor]: I wish I could help, but as I said, the files you requested are classified. 
BASHIR: Why would Odo's medical records be classified? 
WELDON [on monitor]: They are. That's all I know. 
BASHIR: I want to talk to your supervising officer. 
WELDON [on monitor]: You did. Lieutenant Douglas. 
BASHIR: Then I want to talk to her supervising officer, Ensign. 
WELDON [on monitor]: I'll patch you through, but he's going to tell you the same thing. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: Commander Hilliard here. 
BASHIR: Ah, Commander. I was hoping you could sort out this situation for me. I realise that the files I requested are classified, but given the circumstances, I was hoping you would be able to understand the need for some expediency. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: Of course. You wouldn't mind answering a few questions? 
BASHIR: Of course not, if it's necessary. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: Now you've requested Security Chief Odo's medical records from Stardate? 
BASHIR: Four nine four one nine, sir. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: And you state that he has contracted the morphogenic virus that's infected the Founders. 
BASHIR: Correct. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: How did he contract it? 
BASHIR: Presumably when he Linked with one of them, sir. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: You're saying that he's been in contact with the enemy? 
BASHIR: Yes, but not recently. It happened over a year ago. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: I assume that you've done your own scans of Odo over the years? 
BASHIR: Of course. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: Then why do you need ours? 
BASHIR: To use as a point of comparison in hopes of finding a cure, sir. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: A cure? 
BASHIR: That's right. Is there anything else, sir? 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: No. No, that pretty much covers it. 
BASHIR: Good. So when can I expect to receive a copy of these files? 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: I'm afraid those files are classified. 
BASHIR: But I thought you just asked me all these questions in order to clear me to receive them. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: No, no, you misunderstood. I can't release those files to anyone that doesn't have Sigma Nine Clearance. 
BASHIR: Listen, I don't give a damn about Sigma Nine clearance! All I care about is finding a cure for this disease! 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: I fail to see why you're so determined to cure a disease that infects our enemy. We're at war, Doctor. 
BASHIR: The Founders have nothing to do with it. Odo's life is at stake. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: Odo, who by your own admission has been known to consort with the enemy. 
BASHIR: Sir, you have to understand the circumstances. 
HILLIARD [on monitor]: I don't care about the circumstances. If you find a cure, there's a good chance it'll fall into Dominion hands. That's a risk that Starfleet Medical is not willing to take. Request for the files is denied. Now if I were you, I'd drop this matter, otherwise I'll have to refer it to Starfleet Security. 
[Replimat]
O'BRIEN: Sounds like a typical bureaucrat flexing his muscles. 
BASHIR: No, it was more than that. He practically accused me of being a traitor. He made it sound like I was in league with the Dominion just because I wanted to help Odo. 
O'BRIEN: Maybe the attack on Starfleet Headquarters has him spooked. You know, guys like Hilliard are used to sitting behind their desks, not under them. 
BASHIR: If only I could get a hold of that file. Maybe the Captain could request it? 
O'BRIEN: Does he have Sigma Nine clearance, whatever that is? 
BASHIR: For Odo's sake, we'd better hope so. 
[Damar's base]
(The runabout has arrived at the planet, which apparently is called Vanden Prime. Kira, Odo and Garak are escorted into the main cavern.) 
DAMAR: Welcome to the headquarters of the Cardassian Liberation Front. It's been a long time. 
KIRA: Yes, it has. 
RUSOT: Did you bring the supplies we requested? 
ODO: Food replicators, weapons. I think you'll find everything you asked for. 
DAMAR: Excellent. The Cardassian people won't forget the Federation's generosity. 
GARAK: How nice. And now that the formalities are over with, let's try to remember that our enemy is the Dominion, and not each other. 
RUSOT: I don't need to be reminded of who my enemies are. 
(Later, at the briefing.) 
KIRA: A Resistance organisation is structured into cells, autonomous groups of ten to twenty people. That way if anyone gets captured, their ability to compromise the organisation is limited. They can't be forced to name names that they don't know. 
GARAK: The Obsidian Order worked the same way. 
KIRA: We have to decentralise your operation. Having all your men in one place is just too risky. 
RUSOT: If we scatter our resources, we won't be able to defend ourselves against a Dominion assault. 
KIRA: And if you stay in one place, they can wipe out your entire Resistance movement in one attack. Smaller groups are safer. They're harder to track down. 
DAMAR: I'll have my men investigate possible locations for other bases. 
KIRA: Good. Now, Odo and Garak have been looking over your intelligence reports and they came up with a list of vulnerable facilities for us to target. 
ODO: The weapons depot on Adarak Prime is protected by only a single garrison and there's a weakness in their perimeter defences. A small group could infiltrate the compound and 
RUSOT: Adarak Prime is defended by a Cardassian garrison. 
ODO: That's correct. 
SESKAL: You expect us to attack our own people? 
KIRA: If necessary, yes. 
RUSOT: That's out of the question. 
DAMAR: I agree. We'll limit ourselves to targets defended by the Jem'Hadar and the Breen. 
KIRA: Believe me, I understand how you feel. During the occupation, I didn't want to attack any facility that had a Bajoran working in it. But I did it. Because they were collaborators. They were working with the enemy. 
RUSOT: We're not Bajorans. We don't kill our own. 
KIRA: Well then you might as well just give up right now. Because the minute that the Dominion realises that you will not attack your own people, they will station a Cardassian at every base they have. 
ODO: She's right. The Founders won't hesitate to play your own people against you. 
KIRA: Anyone who's not fighting with you, is fighting against you. 
DAMAR: You were saying the Adarak perimeter defences are vulnerable. 
RUSOT: Damar. 
DAMAR: Not another word, Rusot. Continue. 
ODO: We would need to disable the garrison's security protocols. 
GARAK: I believe that's where I step in. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: I'd loved to have seen Hilliard's face when he realised Captain Sisko had Sigma Nine clearance. 
O'BRIEN: So, is the file worth all the trouble you had to go through? 
BASHIR: There's more data here than I expected. Starfleet Medical certainly were thorough. 
O'BRIEN: By the way, what happened with you and Ezri? 
BASHIR: Don't ask. 
O'BRIEN: Go on. 
BASHIR: Actually, she got involved with Worf. 
O'BRIEN: What? She told you that? 
BASHIR: Well, not in so many words. 
O'BRIEN: Julian, I had a drink with Worf the other day. He told me that he and Ezri were just friends. You must have misunderstood her. 
BASHIR: I suppose it's possible. I mean, she didn't exactly come out and say it. 
O'BRIEN: Well did you at least find out why she's been avoiding you? 
BASHIR: No. That's odd. 
O'BRIEN: What? 
BASHIR: The dispersal pattern in this resonance scan. I've seen it before. 
O'BRIEN: What do you mean? 
BASHIR: When I first came to the station, I had to familiarise myself with Odo's physiology. Doctor Mora was kind enough to share his data with me. This looks like the scan he did when he first found Odo. 
O'BRIEN: Are you sure? There's a lot of numbers there. 
BASHIR: I saw it with my own eyes not seven years ago. 
O'BRIEN: You really are genetically enhanced, aren't you. 
BASHIR: According to the date, this scan was done when Odo was at Starfleet Medical. 
O'BRIEN: Two different scans can't have exactly the same dispersal pattern? 
BASHIR: It's impossible. Someone took Mora's results and built up a phony medical workup around them. This isn't Odo's file. They sent a fake. 
O'BRIEN: I can't believe Starfleet Medical would actually make up a fake file just to throw you off. 
BASHIR: You're right. It isn't something Starfleet Medical would do. 
O'BRIEN: Are you thinking what I'm thinking? 
BASHIR: Section Thirty One. 
O'BRIEN: An organisation that's prepared to do whatever it takes to protect the Federation wouldn't even blink at doing something like this. 
BASHIR: They don't want me to find a cure. They're afraid the Founders will get hold of it. 
O'BRIEN: And to keep that from happening, they're willing to let Odo die. 
[Martok's office]
MARTOK: First he gives me a medal, then he takes over my command. It makes no sense. 
WORF: Our people have come to see you as a saviour of the Empire. That is something Gowron cannot tolerate. He wants to be its saviour. 
MARTOK: What's he afraid of? That I'm going to challenge his position? I have no interest in politics. I'm a soldier. By the hand of Kahless. I've earned my position. I've risen through the ranks, fought countless battles. What has he done? Schemed and plotted his way to power. 
WORF: His military experience is limited. He is not half the tactician you are. 
MARTOK: Many brave warriors have given their lives in this war. (sigh) Whatever Gowron's motives are, it is our duty to help him defeat the Dominion. We owe it to our fallen comrades. 
WORF: I am honoured to be part of your House. 
MARTOK: Well, I had better gather my things. This office belongs to Gowron now. 
[Damar's base]
(Mealtime) 
ODO: How's the food? 
KIRA: Replicated. 
SESKAL: Are you going to ask him or not? 
GARAK: I wouldn't recommend it. 
SESKAL: It's a legitimate question, Garak. 
GARAK: Maybe. I just don't think it's a proper subject for discussion, not if we're all supposed to be getting along. 
SESKAL: Well, if you won't ask him, I will. Odo, when you were the Head of Security on Terok Nor, what did you think was going to happen to the Bajoran prisoners you arrested? 
KIRA: You don't have to answer that. 
RUSOT: Why not? It's a legitimate question. 
KIRA: If you want to provoke an argument. 
GARAK: Just as I said. 
ODO: I expected that my prisoners would be dealt with justly, but I soon came to realize that Cardassians had little interest in justice. 
SESKAL: Ah. Well then, why didn't you resign in protest? 
(Kira throws her plate across the room.) 
KIRA: What are you getting at? 
ODO: Nerys, don't. 
RUSOT: I believe you've struck a nerve. Apparently, Commander Kira doesn't like to be reminded that her lover collaborated with her enemies. 
KIRA: Odo wasn't a collaborator. 
RUSOT: I suppose that depends on your definition of collaborator. 
ODO: Nerys, it isn't worth it. 
GARAK: Odo's right, Commander. 
KIRA: I guess we have a difference of opinion. 
(Kira walks away, and Odo follows her.) 
GARAK: You don't know how lucky you are. 
RUSOT: Oh? Why's that? 
GARAK: She would have killed you. 
RUSOT: I only wish she had tried. 
(Kira and Odo reach a sleeping area. Kira kicks over some convenient barrels.) 
ODO: I'm glad we're in agreement. 
KIRA: You want to knock over some supplies, be my guest. 
ODO: You did the right thing, Nerys. The Dominion is our enemy, not Rusot. 
KIRA: I don't need you to remind me of that. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. It's just so hot in here. 
ODO: Cardassians do love the heat. 
KIRA: I don't. I'm going to go see if I can find a cooling unit. 
ODO: I'll come with you. 
KIRA: It's all right. I promise I won't hit anyone. 
ODO: I'll hold you to that. 
(Kira leaves. Odo starts to pick up a barrel and notices some dry 'skin' on his hand. After the break he morphs it away just before Kira returns.) 
KIRA: You're not going to believe this. 
ODO: Believe what? 
KIRA: Damar actually had a cooling unit waiting for us. What's wrong? 
ODO: Nothing. I was just worried that you might have had another run in with Rusot. 
KIRA: Don't worry. I'm going to keep a cool head. Assuming of course I can get this thing to work. 
[Winn's office]
(Night time. The door opens.) 
DUKAT: Adami? Are you there? 
WINN: I'm here. I spoke with the doctor. She said she can find nothing wrong with your eyes. 
DUKAT: Then she's incompetent! A Cardassian doctor would've cured me by now. 
WINN: You still don't understand, do you? The Pah wraiths have taken your sight in punishment for your arrogance. Only they can give it back to you. 
DUKAT: I meant them no disrespect. I only wanted to study the book to see if I could help you learn how to release them. 
WINN: You wanted to see if you could do it without me. Well, you can't. 
DUKAT: Pray with me, Adami. Help me earn the Pah wraiths' forgiveness. 
WINN: I'm afraid you'll have to do that on your own. (doorbell) Door. Deputy Bodan will show you out. 
DUKAT: Show me out? I don't understand. 
WINN: You need a lesson in humility. I'm going to see that you get it. 
DUKAT: By putting me out on the street? 
WINN: You'll find the Bajoran people are very kind. A blind beggar will elicit their sympathies, I'm certain. And with any luck, you'll earn enough to eat and perhaps even enough for shelter each night. 
DUKAT: You're not serious. 
WINN: You may return when you've proved yourself worthy and your sight has been restored. Bodan. 
(Dukat is hustled out.) 
DUKAT: Adami, listen. Adami! Adami listen to me, please! Adami! 
(Winn smiles.) 
[Gowron's office]
(The one that was Martok's earlier in the show.) 
GOWRON: You see? 
(Doorbell) 
GOWRON: Enter. Come in, come in. I've been studying the strategic situation. I want to share my thoughts with you. 
MARTOK: Of course. 
GOWRON: Come. The Dominion is deploying their fleet in preparation for a final offensive. They're destroying our ships one by one. 
WORF: We must hold the line until the Federation and Romulan fleets become operational again. 
GOWRON: No. Don't you see? That's exactly what the enemy is expecting. The time to act is now. 
MARTOK: What are you proposing, Chancellor? 
GOWRON: We're going on the offensive. Starting tomorrow, I'm sending sorties deep into enemy territory to strike at the very heart of the Dominion! 
MARTOK: But we are barely holding the line as it is. 
WORF: We need every ship we have to defend the border. 
GOWRON: What's wrong with you two? Don't you understand? We must seize the day! 
MARTOK: We are outnumbered twenty to one. 
GOWRON: What of it? The element of surprise will be on our side. 
MARTOK: Chancellor, in my opinion 
GOWRON: Did I ask your opinion? Trust me, my friends. I can see it all so clearly. While our allies sit and do nothing, the Klingon Empire will score the final triumph over the Dominion. We'll be the saviours of the Alpha Quadrant. The glory will be ours and ours alone. 
[Infirmary]
O'BRIEN: I don't know, Julian. If Section Thirty One is involved in this, maybe we should tell the Captain. 
BASHIR: We've been over this, Miles. If we tell him, he'll have to report it to Starfleet Command. Thirty One'll certainly get wind of it and once they realise we figured out the files are fake, they'll take steps to make sure we don't find a cure. 
O'BRIEN: I see your point. What steps do you think they might take? 
BASHIR: Believe me, we don't want to find out. 
(Quark enters carrying a tray with mugs on.) 
QUARK: Excuse me, gentlemen. 
O'BRIEN: Is that coffee? 
QUARK: I figured you were probably working on a way to help Odo. I thought this is the least I could do. 
BASHIR: How did you know Odo was ill? 
QUARK: I hear things. 
O'BRIEN: Yeah, well keep it under your hat, will you? 
QUARK: Why? 
O'BRIEN: Just do it. 
QUARK: All right, all right. Do you still want the coffee? 
O'BRIEN: Odo would be touched if he knew you were doing this. 
QUARK: You're not going to tell him, are you? 
O'BRIEN: It'll be our little secret. 
QUARK: Good luck. 
(Quark leaves.) 
O'BRIEN: Here you go. 
BASHIR: Hang on, hang on, I'm just trying to figure out when Odo became infected. I analysed the sample he left and mapped out the life cycle of the virus. I'm programming the computer to calculate just how long it took for the virus to achieve its present level of concentration. 
O'BRIEN: That makes sense. According to that, he was infected over two years ago? 
BASHIR: More than that. I just don't understand. I assumed he became infected when he Linked with the female shape-shifter. 
O'BRIEN: But if it happened that long ago, how come he hasn't shown any symptoms before? 
BASHIR: Good question. Got it. Stardate four nine four one nine. 
O'BRIEN: Almost three years ago. 
BASHIR: Wait a minute. Four nine four one nine. That's the day that Odo was at Starfleet Medical. 
O'BRIEN: You sure? 
BASHIR: Yes. My god. No wonder Hilliard wouldn't let me see the file. Section Thirty one must have created the virus, infected Odo, and then used him as a carrier. 
O'BRIEN: So that when he Linked with another changeling, he'd pass it on, and eventually the entire race would be infected. 
BASHIR: Thirty one isn't just trying to stop us from finding a cure. They're trying to cover up the fact that they set out to commit genocide. 
O'BRIEN: Well if they gave Odo this disease, then they must have a cure. 
BASHIR: We have to find a way to get our hands on that cure. 
O'BRIEN: Before Thirty One gets their hands on us. 

