Episode Number: 517
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - Ties of Blood and Water
Ties of Blood and Water
Stardate: 50712.5
Original Airdate: 14 Apr, 1997
[Airlock]
KIRA: Now remember, I want him treated like a visiting head of state. Full communications and computer access, any assistance he may need from the station's crew. 
DAX: You should have told us know he was coming sooner. I think we have a red carpet in storage somewhere. 
KIRA: Dax, this is important. Tekeny Ghemor led the dissident movement against Cardassia's Central Command. And now that Dukat and the Dominion have taken over, there is no one better qualified to lead the opposition. 
DAX: Besides, he's practically your father. 
WORF: Your father? Ghemor is a Cardassian. 
KIRA: It's a long story. 
DAX: The Cardassians once kidnapped Kira and surgically altered her to look like Ghemor's missing daughter. (link to Second Skin) 
KIRA: It was part of a plan to expose him as the leader of the dissident movement. 
WORF: Cardassian politics are very complex. 
DAX: I think they like it that way. 
KIRA: Ghemor may be the only hope left for Cardassia. He deserves our help. 
(Kira has her back to the airlock.) 
GHEMOR: That's a lot of faith to put in one man. 
(Kira spins round.) 
GHEMOR: I hope I won't prove too great a disappointment. 
KIRA: Legate Ghemor. It's good to see you. 
GHEMOR: How many times must I tell you, Nerys? If you won't call me father, Tekeny will do. 
KIRA: Welcome to Deep Space Nine, Tekeny. This is our science officer, Lieutenant Commander Jadzia Dax, and our strategic operations officer, Lieutenant Commander Worf. 
GHEMOR: That's quite a reception for an old man. Ah, I see you're wearing the bracelet I gave you. 
KIRA: Not exactly permitted under the uniform code, but 
GHEMOR: It looks good on you. It was a pleasure meeting both of you, but if you don't mind, I'm afraid the journey here was a little draining. 
KIRA: Oh, I'll show you to your quarters. 
(Kira and Ghemor leave.) 
WORF: Major Kira, friends with a Cardassian. It seems wrong. 
DAX: You should've known her five years ago. Back then, I never thought she'd be friends with anyone. 
[Ghemor's quarters]
KIRA: I've had the replicator programmed with a complete Cardassian menu. You've got twenty six hour a day computer access, a private subspace comm. channel, and if there is anything else you need, you just ask me. 
GHEMOR: I wish I had your energy. 
KIRA: I am sorry. I just wanted you to feel at home. 
GHEMOR: You've been very kind. 
KIRA: I thought you should know. I checked with Bajoran Security. There are still no leads on your daughter. 
GHEMOR: She's dead, isn't she? 
KIRA: We don't know that. Now, if Iliana is still alive, she's been undercover on Bajor for over a decade now. It's very hard to find someone who's been hiding that long. 
GHEMOR: I know you're trying to keep my hopes up, but it's time I faced the facts. I'm alone. You're the closest thing to family that I have left. 
KIRA: Bajoran Security has not given up hope. Neither should you. You just have to be patient. 
GHEMOR: I'm afraid patience is for the young. But what about you, Nerys? How is life treating you? 
KIRA: Oh, I've got no complaints. Now, did you read the proposal I sent you? 
GHEMOR: It was very ambitious, but I'm afraid you'll have to find another person to lead the effort. 
KIRA: No, you are the perfect person for the job. You're still popular on Cardassia. The people respect you. They'll listen to you. 
GHEMOR: It's not that simple. 
KIRA: We can make it work. We'll set up a government in exile here on the station. You could make regular transmissions into Cardassia, issue corrections to their propaganda, mobilise your old friends in the dissident movement. 
GHEMOR: Nerys, it's a good plan, but I can't help you. 
KIRA: Why? 
GHEMOR: I have Yarim Fel syndrome. It's terminal, Nerys. I'm dying. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: I'm afraid the prognosis isn't good. The disease has already spread throughout your digestive tract, your circulatory and respiratory systems, and your cartilaginous tissue. 
GHEMOR: How much time do I have left? 
BASHIR: I'm not sure. There are still some treatments we can try. Hexadrin therapy or neuroregeneration procedures. 
GHEMOR: I appreciate anything you can do. I'm sorry, Nerys. I'm afraid this isn't going the way you planned. 
KIRA: Oh, don't worry about me. The important thing is to get you well. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Begin Captain's log, stardate 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Ops to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: You've got an incoming 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN: Message from Cardassia. It's from Gul Dukat. 
[Captain's office]
O'BRIEN: He's demanding to speak to you. 
SISKO: Put him through. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Ah, Captain Sisko. Always a pleasure. 
SISKO: Still calling yourself Gul? I'm surprised you haven't promoted yourself back to Legate by now. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: I prefer the title Gul. So much more hands-on than Legate. And less pretentious than the other alternatives, President, Emperor, First Minister, Emissary. 
SISKO: How about Dominion Puppet? 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Captain, such comments only reveal a deep misunderstanding of the intricacies of the Dominion political system. Under our new administration, Cardassia enjoys unparalleled autonomy and 
SISKO: You can justify yourself later, Dukat. I'm a busy man. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Very well. We have reason to believe you have one of our citizens aboard your station. A certain Tekeny Ghemor, formerly a Legate in the Cardassian Central Command. 
SISKO: And if we do? 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Well, we want him back. To put it mildly, he has a lot to answer for. 
SISKO: I will take your request under advisement. But considering the Federation doesn't recognise your government, and that Cardassia has never agreed to an extradition treaty with Bajor or the Federation, you shouldn't get your hopes up. 
[Ghemor's quarters]
(Ghemor is cradling Kirayoshi.) 
GHEMOR: What a beautiful baby you are. Yes. You must be very proud. 
KIRA: He's Miles and Keiko's baby. I just carried him to term for them. 
(Ghemor winces.) 
GHEMOR: Maybe you'd better? 
KIRA: Yeah. (takes Yoshi) Are you? 
GHEMOR: It'll pass. It's silly, but I almost feel like a grandfather. After all, you're the closest thing I have to a daughter. 
KIRA: Yoshi's the closest thing I have to a son. You'd make a terrific grandfather. 
GHEMOR: And what about you, Nerys? Have you ever thought about having one of your own? Maybe with that Shakaar fellow of yours? 
KIRA: You know about me and Shakaar? 
GHEMOR: I've been keeping an eye on you. It made me feel like I still had family. 
KIRA: What did you do, hire someone to follow me around? 
GHEMOR: Credit an old man with some restraint. I just had people let me know when they heard anything about you. Like it or not, you're a public figure, Nerys. First officer of one of the most important military installations in the quadrant. Your feud with Kai Winn has become already something of a legend. Did you know that you have your own section in the Cardassian Central Archives? You've made an impression on people, Nerys. A good one. You should be proud of everything you've accomplished. I am. 
KIRA: You know, I've kept my ears open for news about you too. I was worried about you. Opposing the Cardassian government is dangerous business. 
GHEMOR: I enjoyed it, while it lasted. I have a fondness for hopeless causes. It runs in the family. 
KIRA: Dukat called the station. He wants you extradited to Cardassia. 
GHEMOR: I'm not surprised. He knows that as long as I'm alive, I'm a threat to him. 
KIRA: We won't let him get his hands on you. 
GHEMOR: Nerys, I know more about the Cardassian government than anyone alive. Names, alliances, plots. Things that could do a lot of good in the right hands. There's a Cardassian tradition, shri-tal. The dying give their secrets to their family to use against their enemies. But I have no one left to carry my secrets. No one but you. 
KIRA: Me? 
GHEMOR: Be my daughter one last time, Nerys. Hear what I know and use it as you see fit. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: I hate to sound callous, but we have a tremendous opportunity here. Ghemor is basically volunteering to give us more intelligence on Cardassia than we've been able to gather in five years. 
KIRA: That's exactly what he's doing. 
SISKO: It's quite a responsibility he's handing you. 
KIRA: I know. I can't help wondering if he's chosen the right person. What if I get too involved or I don't ask the right questions? Maybe I can convince Ghemor to talk to a counsellor or Constable Odo. I mean, he questions people every day. 
SISKO: Maybe. But Ghemor just doesn't want to be debriefed. He wants someone to talk to. Someone to be with until the end. 
KIRA: And that someone is me. 
[Bajoran resistance]
(Kira remembers a time before Furel lost his arm. Injured are being brought into the cave hideout.) 
FUREL: Nerys! 
(A badly hurt man is on the stretcher.) 
KIRA: Father. Father, can you hear me? 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: Are you up to it? 
KIRA: I have no choice. I'm all he's got. 
[Ghemor's quarters]
(It looks more like an intensive care or hospice room than guest quarters.) 
BASHIR: If Ghemor's pain gets too severe, push this. It'll administer a small dose of triptacedrine. If you want to replenish the medication, be sure and turn this valve, disconnect it from here, and replace it with a new supply. If you don't want to do it yourself, you can always call for a nurse to help. 
KIRA: I can manage. 
BASHIR: I hope you're right. Looking with someone with a terminal condition isn't easy, especially in this case where you'll be acting as Ghemor's only source of emotional support. 
KIRA: I know what I'm getting myself into. 
BASHIR: I'm sure you do. Well, let me know if you need anything. 
(Bashir leaves.) 
KIRA: Tekeny. 
GHEMOR: Nerys. 
KIRA: No, don't try to move. 
GHEMOR: Mouth's dry. 
KIRA: I'll get you some water. Careful. 
(But it dribbles down his chin.) 
KIRA: Oh, damn it. I'm sorry. 
GHEMOR: It's all right. You're doing fine. Maybe we should get started. 
(Kira gets a dictaphone.) 
KIRA: Session one, stardate 50712.5. Whenever you're ready. 
GHEMOR: Probably Dukat's most powerful enemy is Gul Trepar, the head of the Fourth Order. He's 
KIRA: What is it? 
GHEMOR: Button. 
(Kira triggers a dose of painkiller.) 
KIRA: Better? You know, maybe I can ask Doctor Bashir to get you something stronger. 
GHEMOR: No. Anything stronger and I'd be unconscious. And you and I have a lot to talk about. Where were we? 
KIRA: Trepar. 
GHEMOR: Trepar. Trepar used to outrank Dukat and he's not happy to be taking orders from one of his former subordinates. Trepar's aide is a man named Glinn Borven, a political opportunist with all the loyalty of a 
[Bajoran resistance]
KIRA: Medic! We need a medic! What the hell's taking them so long! 
TABAN: Nerys! Nerys, don't leave me. I was such a fool. When the Cardassians started setting fire to the village, I tried to talk to them, to reason with them. Look what they've done to me. 
KIRA: I'm going to make them pay for this, I promise you. 
TABAN: They burnt my garden, set fire to everything. I worked for years planting it, caring for it, and now it's gone. 
KIRA: We'll plant another one, together, you and I. 
TABAN: I wish I had your strength, Nerys, your confidence. I'm so afraid. 
KIRA: Where's that damn medic? 
TABAN: Don't go. Stay with me. The medic can wait. I don't want to be alone. 
[Ghemor's quarters]
KIRA: The subject is asleep. I'm concluding the interview for the day. 
GHEMOR: (muttering and twitching) Cold, cold. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: It's a good start. Starfleet Intelligence will be very pleased. 
KIRA: There's more where that came from. Ghemor seems to know every politician and bureaucrat on Cardassia. 
SISKO: You look tired. 
KIRA: I've been up for thirty hours straight. 
SISKO: You should get some rest. 
BASHIR [OC]: Bashir to Major Kira. 
KIRA: Go ahead. 
BASHIR [OC]: Please report to Ghemor's quarters immediately. 
[Ghemor's quarters]
BASHIR: He's not responding to the hexadrin therapy anymore. 
GHEMOR: Nerys. 
KIRA: I'm here. 
GHEMOR: Ask me questions, Nerys. We don't have much time. 
KIRA: You were talking about the Supreme Tribunal. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Status report. 
WORF: A Jem'Hadar battleship is approaching the station. 
DAX: Its weapons are armed and its targeting systems are active. 
SISKO: Red Alert. All crewmembers report to battle stations. 
O'BRIEN: They're hailing us. 
SISKO: On screen. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: Captain Sisko. 
SISKO: Gul Dukat. What's the meaning of this? 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: You said you'd take my request for Ghemor's extradition under advisement. 
O'BRIEN: They've locked weapons on the station. 
DUKAT [on viewscreen]: I eagerly await your decision. 
[Captain's office]
DUKAT: Captain Sisko. Thank you for the kind invitation. This is one of my Dominion advisors, Weyoun. 
SISKO: We've met. I saw you die. 
WEYOUN: That wasn't me. At least not exactly. 
DUKAT: The Vorta are experts at cloning. 
WEYOUN: It tends to mitigate the risk involved in so much of our work. My predecessor was the fourth incarnation of our noble progenitor. I am the fifth. 
SISKO: Immortality. 
WEYOUN: Of a sort. Interested? 
SISKO: Dukat, you said you wanted to talk to me. Now is your chance. 
DUKAT: Then I'll make it simple, Captain. Tekeny Ghemor is not a well man. He would be better off under the care of his own people. We want him to know he can come home. 
SISKO: To attend his own execution. 
DUKAT: No, not at all. Ghemor's case has been reviewed by the new judicial system and he's been cleared of any wrongdoing. 
WEYOUN: Dominion courts are renowned for their honesty and equanimity. 
DUKAT: So, as you can see, there's no reason Ghemor can't return to Cardassia. 
SISKO: I don't think he would agree with you. 
WEYOUN: Perhaps we should find out. 
[Ghemor's quarters]
GHEMOR: Dukat, I have a week to live, maybe less. Do you really expect me to trade my silence for a few short days under the Cardassian sun? 
DUKAT: It is where you belong, Ghemor. 
GHEMOR: And it's where I'd be this very moment if you hadn't betrayed our people to the Dominion. Good day, Dukat. 
WEYOUN: He doesn't seem to like you very much. We're going to have to do something about your public image. 
KIRA: Gentlemen. 
DUKAT: You haven't heard my entire offer. We do have something else I think might interest you. Your daughter, Iliana. 
GHEMOR: Iliana? I 
KIRA: Don't listen to him. 
DUKAT: Your daughter is alive. I know where to find her. 
GHEMOR: I want to believe you, Dukat, but even if I did, let's just say I don't like the company you're keeping. You and I might have come to an agreement, one Cardassian to another. But now dealing with you means dealing with them, and that makes the price too high. 
KIRA: All right, you have your answer. 
DUKAT: My ship will be docked here few days longer. 
WEYOUN: In case you change your mind. 
GHEMOR: I won't. 
(Time passes. More painkiller is given, more information recorded but nothing we didn't know from what I could hear under the music. Kira sleeps, mops his brow and Ghemor talks, and shivers.) 
[Quark's cafe]
QUARK: What can I get for you, Major? A frosty Bajoran ale perhaps? Or something stronger? How about a Black Hole? 
KIRA: Whatever. 
QUARK: You look terrible. Not that I mind. I like my women a little rumpled. 
KIRA: Quark, just get me my drink. 
QUARK: I know just the thing. Warm Enyak's milk. It'll help you sleep. 
[Kira's quarters]
KIRA: Come in. 
DUKAT: Major. Sorry to disturb you. 
KIRA: Sorry enough to leave? 
DUKAT: Your defense of Ghemor is admirable. But did it ever occur to you, you may be fighting the wrong battle? Do you recall the massacre at the Kiessa Monastery? 
KIRA: Kiessa. What's that got to do with Ghemor? 
(Dukat hands over a PADD) 
DUKAT: See for yourself. That is his official military record. You can verify anything on there with Bajoran Intelligence if you like. 
KIRA: You are really enjoying this, aren't you? Huh? All your sick little games. 
DUKAT: I must admit, I do get a certain perverse pleasure out of it. Read it or not, it's up to you. 
(Kira throws a cup at Dukat.) 
KIRA: I promise you, Dukat, I will make you pay for all of this one day. 
DUKAT: Maybe. But not today. 
(Dukat leaves, and Kira reads the PADD.) 
[Ghemor's quarters]
GHEMOR: Nerys. 
KIRA [OC]: I'll be right there. 
(Ghemor has knocked over a glass of water.) 
KIRA: Now what? 
GHEMOR: I was thirsty. 
KIRA: Just sit back. You're all tangled up. 
GHEMOR: I'm sorry. 
KIRA: It's a little late for that now, isn't it? 
GHEMOR: Nerys, is something wrong? 
KIRA: Yes there's something's wrong. You lied to me. 
GHEMOR: About what? 
KIRA: About everything. But let's start with Kiessa Monastery. 
GHEMOR: Kiessa. 
KIRA: You were there, weren't you? 
GHEMOR: Dukat told you. 
KIRA: The Cardassian army burned Kiessa to the ground. Seventeen monks were killed. 
GHEMOR: But they were hiding weapons for the Resistance. Weapons that were being used to kill my friends. It was war. It was easy to despise you. But you weren't the monsters, we were. I wish I'd never joined the military, never volunteered for duty on Bajor. But I did. And I can't change that, no matter how much I might want to. 
KIRA: So instead you hid the truth from me. 
GHEMOR: No, Nerys. I didn't want you to hate me. 
KIRA: It's what you deserve. 
GHEMOR: Nerys! 
(Kira gives him a glass of water and leaves.) 
[Quark's]
(Weyoun is playing dabo) 
WEYOUN: Dabo! That is dabo, isn't it? 
DUKAT: I don't know why you insist on playing this ridiculous game. 
WEYOUN: I like games. 
(Sisko enters.) 
DUKAT: Ah, Captain. Can I help you? 
SISKO: I thought we should talk. I realise I haven't been much of a host. 
(He has brought a bottle of kanar, and glasses. They go to a table under the watchful gaze of Security.);
SISKO: Here, have some kanar. 
DUKAT: No, thank you. I'm not particularly thirsty right now. 
SISKO: I insist. 
DUKAT: I said no thank you. I never touch Kanar on an empty stomach, Captain. It's bad for the digestion. 
SISKO: In this case, that's something of an understatement. Because in that bottle is enough voraxna poison to kill at least a dozen Cardassians. It was delivered to Tekeny Ghemor less than twenty minutes ago. 
DUKAT: Fascinating. 
SISKO: What's wrong, Dukat? Are you afraid Ghemor's going to say something that might undermine your cosy new position? 
DUKAT: Tread with care, Captain. You're coming dangerously close to accusing the head of the Cardassian government of attempted murder. 
SISKO: Is that what I'm doing? 
WEYOUN: How delightful. The mysterious plots, the subtle innuendos, the veiled threats. It's all so entertaining. 
(Weyoun drinks the kanar.) 
DUKAT: What? 
WEYOUN: Oh, my. That is quite toxic, isn't it? 
DUKAT: Are you insane? 
WEYOUN: Vorta are immune to most forms of poison. Comes in handy when you're a diplomat. 
SISKO: Especially when you're working with the Cardassians. You can keep the kanar, Dukat. Ghemor won't be drinking it. 
[Promenade]
(Odo is pacing as Kira leaves the shrine.) 
ODO: It's a little late for services, Major. 
KIRA: I needed a quiet place to think. If you've got something to say to me, Constable, say it. 
ODO: I understand you've stopped visiting Ghemor. 
KIRA: He lied to me. I thought he was different, but he's just like the rest of them. 
ODO: Is he? Really. I've seen his file, too, Major. He was nineteen when Kiessa was destroyed. He'd been in the military for less than a year and was only one of four hundred soldiers at the monastery. There's no way of knowing if he even fired a shot. 
KIRA: He shouldn't have been there at all. 
ODO: This isn't about Ghemor's war record. If it really mattered, you wouldn't have waited for Dukat to hand it to you. You would have looked it up yourself. 
KIRA: What are you trying to say? That I should go back down there? 
ODO: Ah. No, I wasn't saying that at all. Are you? 
[Bajoran resistance]
(Taban is writhing in agony.) 
KIRA: Father? Father. Father, hold still. You'll tear your bandages. 
TABAN: My garden. They burned my garden. 
KIRA: I know. I know. 
TABAN: I can hear the Prophets calling me, Nerys. I can feel my pagh slipping away. 
FUREL: Nerys. We found them. It's a Cardassian heavy weapons unit. Third assault group, ninth order. 
KIRA: Hold on. I'll be right back. How far? 
FUREL: Just outside of Tempasa. 
KIRA: I'll go with you. 
FUREL: Are you sure? 
KIRA: I know the area. 
FUREL: So does Gantt. 
KIRA: They didn't shoot Gantt's father. They shot mine. 
FUREL: All right. Go. 
KIRA: We found the soldiers that did this to you. I'm going to make them pay, just like I promised. 
TABAN: The others. Let them. You don't have to go. 
KIRA: Yes, I do. Yes, I do. I won't be long. Let's go! 
[Kira's quarters]
(Kira is putting candles in front of her shrine when the doorbell rings.) 
KIRA: Come in. 
BASHIR: I thought you should know that Ghemor's condition has deteriorated. He'll be dead within the hour. 
KIRA: Thank you for the information, Doctor. 
BASHIR: Is that it? Thank you for the information? Ghemor is dying. 
KIRA: I heard you. 
BASHIR: Major, he wants to see you. 
KIRA: Well, I don't want to see him. 
BASHIR: Major, please, it's almost over. There's no more questions to ask, no more work to be done. Just go to his quarters and sit with him. 
KIRA: I said no. Don't ask me again. 
BASHIR: Fine. You must do what you want. But I think you're making a mistake. Regardless of what Ghemor's done in the past, he doesn't deserve to die alone. Nobody does. 
[Bajoran resistance]
(The fighters have returned from their mission, laughing.) 
FUREL: All four mortar rounds right in the central compound. And the way they ran, it was like kicking over a mound of barrowbugs. 
KIRA: What was the count? 
FUREL: Five skimmers, and at least, at least fifteen Cardassian dead. Now that's not a bad day's work. We should celebrate. 
KIRA: Yeah. They kill us, we kill them. It's nothing worth celebrating. 
GANTT: Nerys. Your father. 
(He's dead.) 
GANTT: He died calling your name. 
KIRA: Get another raiding party together. I want to hit those Cardassians again as soon as we have a chance. 
[Outside the cave]
(Kira is digging the grave.) 
FUREL: Would you like me to call everyone together? Have Prylar Quen say a few words? 
KIRA: There's nothing left to say. 
[Ghemor's quarters]
GHEMOR: I didn't think you would come. 
KIRA: Well, for a while there, neither did I. 
(She takes his hand and rests her head on his chest.) 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: Cause of death was CNS failure brought on by Yarim Fel syndrome. One witness was present, a Major Kira Nerys of the Bajoran Militia. Witness's statement is attached. Major, we're done here. 
KIRA: That's it? A quick postmortem, a statement from the witness and a little paperwork. It seems so straightforward. 
BASHIR: It never is. 
KIRA: He got so quiet toward the end. I could hear him whispering things. His wife's name, Iliana's, even mine. Then the pain just got too much for him and he just lay there, breathing. And at the end of every exhale, there was this pause, and I thought that's it. It's over. Then he'd force another breath, and another. I started counting them. One hundred, two hundred, three hundred. He was fought for every last second. I don't even think he knew I was there. 
BASHIR: He knew. You gave him what he needed. He didn't die alone. 
KIRA: Maybe he gave me something I needed. I missed my father's death by less than an hour. Did you know that? Less than an hour. I always told myself that it was bad luck, bad timing, the will of the Prophets. But the truth is, I didn't have to go when I did. I could have stayed a while longer. I saw my chance to get out and I took it. I saw so much death during the occupation, I felt so much pain. But my father, he was my strength, and I couldn't stand to see that strength slipping away. So I ran. 
BASHIR: Just like you tried to run from Ghemor. 
KIRA: He reminded me so much of my father. Going through it again, I just couldn't face it. 
BASHIR: But in the end, you did. You were there for Ghemor. 
KIRA: I owed it to him. I owed it to my father to get it right this time. 
[Captain's office]
SISKO: You wanted to see me? 
DUKAT: Yes. I understand Legate Ghemor has passed away. 
SISKO: You must be very relieved. 
DUKAT: Oh Captain, such cynicism does not suit you. All of Cardassia will mourn the passing of Tekeny Ghemor. He was a great man. 
SISKO: I'm surprised to hear you say that. 
DUKAT: Not at all. It takes a great man to admit he's wrong, and that's what Ghemor did. I'm speaking of his last minute change of heart. His deathbed decision to embrace the new Dominion government. 
SISKO: That's very moving, except for one small problem. It never happened. 
WEYOUN: As you said, it's a small problem. 
DUKAT: I would like his body transferred to my ship. We'll take him home and bury him with full state honours. 
SISKO: I'm afraid that's going to be impossible. Legate Ghemor's funeral arrangements have already been taken care of. 
[Bajoran resistance]
(Kira has buried Ghemor next to her father.) 

