Episode Number: 403
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - A Man Alone
A Man Alone
Stardate: 46421.5
Original Airdate: 17 Jan, 1993
[Holosuite]
(Dax appears to be meditating as a large balloon floats in front of her) 
DAX: Do you need me, Julian? 
BASHIR: How did you know it was me? 
DAX: There are different ways to recognise someone. The rhythm of their steps, for example. 
BASHIR: You are remarkable. 
DAX: Julian, you and I have to have a talk about Trills and relationships. 
BASHIR: Fine. We'll do it over supper. Quark has found me this delightfully dry champagne estate bottled on Korris One. 
DAX: Julian. 
BASHIR: What is this? 
DAX: An Altonian brain teaser. 
BASHIR: A brain teaser? 
DAX: A puzzle. 
BASHIR: A puzzle? I love puzzles. How does it work? 
DAX: It responds to neural theta waves. The goal is to turn the sphere into a solid colour. 
BASHIR: That's all? 
DAX: That's all. I've been trying to master it on and off for, oh, a hundred and forty years. Would you care to try? 
BASHIR: Yes. 
DAX: Just sit comfortably, and release your tension into my hands. 
Dax strokes his head) 
BASHIR: Your hands are cold. 
DAX: It's a peculiarity of the Trill. 
BASHIR: Cold hands, warm heart. 
DAX: Concentrate on the sphere. Clear your mind. This requires focus and clarity of thought. 
BASHIR: I understand completely. What is that exotic scent you're wearing? 
DAX: Focus and clarity of thought. 
BASHIR: Yes, yes, I have it. 
DAX: I'm going to release it to you now, okay? 
BASHIR: Okay. 
DAX: Computer, transfer control to second player. 
(The sphere goes kaleidoscope then disappears) 
DAX: I think your mind is still a little busy, Julian. 
BASHIR: So, are you free for supper? 
(Sisko enters) 
SISKO: Ready, Dax? 
DAX: Sorry. Perhaps another time. Maybe you'd like to try again. 
SISKO: Doctor. 
(Dax and Sisko leave) 
BASHIR: Computer. Reset. 
[Quark's]
ODO: Business is good, Quark. You're almost making an honest living. 
QUARK: A lot of new faces. 
ODO: The wormhole does bring them our way, doesn't it? 
QUARK: Everybody wants a piece of the new frontier. 
ODO: And I'm sure you've already tried to sell it to a few of them. 
(Raised voices at an upstairs table) 
O'BRIEN: We made the decision together. 
KEIKO: Not true. That's not true. You decided and asked me to agree with it. 
QUARK: Grapevine says Chief O'Brien and the missus are having problems. 
ODO: I'll never understand the humanoid need to couple. 
QUARK: You've never coupled? 
ODO: Choose not to. Too many compromises. You want to watch the karo-net tournament, she wants to listen to music, so you compromise. You listen to music. You like Earth jazz, she prefers Klingon opera, so you compromise. You listen to Klingon opera. So here you were ready to have a nice night watching the karo-net match and you wind up spending an agonising night listening to Klingon opera. 
KEIKO: That's exactly what I'm saying. 
O'BRIEN: Keiko, sit down, please. 
ODO: What could they be going on about like that anyway? 
QUARK: She doesn't like it here. 
ODO: Who does? 
(Sisko and Dax are on the upper level, and Quark makes an appreciative growl) 
ODO: Don't even think about it. 
QUARK: I can so think about it. 
ODO: You might as well try to find a drink of water on the Yadozi desert. Besides I'd say our new Commander is interested in her. 
QUARK: Not at all. I know for a fact, when she was a he, you know, before she got this new body, they were old friends. 
ODO: Things change. 
IRUDAN: All right now, here we go. 
(Odo spots someone at the Dabo table) 
ODO: How long has he been here? 
IBUDAN: All right, one more time. 
QUARK: He came in on a transport last night. 
[Quark's cafe]
(Sisko and Dax are at their table) 
WAITER: Something to eat? 
DAX: Just steamed azna. 
SISKO: Well, some things are still the same. 
DAX: If you'd listen to me, you would eat steamed azna too. 
SISKO: Dax, did I ever tell you about the meals my father used to cook for us when we were children? 
DAX: All the time. 
SISKO: Every night in my house, my dad insisted that we have supper together as a family. He would try out his new recipes on us. He used to call us his test tasters. 
DAX: Steamed azna will put years on your life. 
SISKO: Dax, I don't want years on my life if I can only eat steamed azna. Saut�ed, rolloped, fricasseed, fine. But not steamed. I've missed your steamed azna. 
DAX: You must miss Curzon, too. 
SISKO: He was, you were, are a mentor, another father to me. 
DAX: This happens to Trills, Benjamin. Sometimes, our friendships with other species don't survive because of the change. 
SISKO: It won't be that way with us. It's just a little uncomfortable right now. 
DAX: I suggest you that allow yourself to be comfortable with your discomfort. Time can do the rest. 
O'BRIEN: Keiko. 
(Keiko is leaving, and O'Brien follows her.) 
[Quark's]
(Back downstairs) 
DABO GIRL: Dabo! 
IRUDAN: All right. 
ODO: I don't want you on this station. 
IBUDAN: Yeah, well that's too bad, because I have every right to be here. 
ODO: I decide who has rights and who doesn't on this Promenade. 
IBUDAN: You'd better ask your Federation superiors about that one. 
ODO: I don't have to check with anyone. 
IRUDAN: Get off me. 
(There's a fight and Sisko runs down to separate them.) 
ODO: You have twenty-six hours to get off this station. 
[Promenade upper level]
O'BRIEN: Look, I'm willing to ask for a transfer if that'll make you happy. 
KEIKO: That's not fair either. You'd have to give up your promotion. 
O'BRIEN: Not necessarily. 
KEIKO: I wish I knew the right thing to do. I'm just lost here. Starfleet doesn't need a botanist on this station. 
O'BRIEN: Keiko, there's a whole new quadrant on the other side of the wormhole, full of new plant life to explore. 
KEIKO: And ships going to explore it and I'm not on any of them. 
O'BRIEN: We'll be sending runabouts through the wormhole. I'll see to it you get to go. 
KEIKO: I don't need favours from you. I just need to be useful. 
O'BRIEN: Just think how much more attractive this place could be if you planted some trees and flowers on the Promenade. You could even create an arboretum from the new specimens we bring back from the Gamma Quadrant. 
KEIKO: Do you really want to raise your daughter in this place, Miles? 
KIRA [OC]: Kira to O'Brien. 
O'BRIEN: Go ahead. 
KIRA: We have a non-functional power transfer grid on level five. All the upper docking pylons are out of commission. 
O'BRIEN: On my way. 
[Promenade]
(Nog has bought a confection on a stick from a kiosk) 
JAKE: Hi. 
NOG: What do you want, Human? 
JAKE: My name's Jake. 
NOG: I know who you are. 
JAKE: What's yours? 
NOG: Why do you care? 
JAKE: Not exactly a lot of friends to choose from around here. You know what I mean. 
NOG: Nog. My name's Nog. 
[Commander's office]
ODO: His name is Ibudan. He used to run black market goods through here to the surface during the Cardassian occupation, gouging his fellow man who needed medical supplies and so forth. Some Bajorans actually considered him a hero, but I saw him let a child die when the parents couldn't afford the drug that would've saved her life. A few years back, he killed a Cardassian officer who wanted a payoff to look the other way. He went to prison for murder. I sent him there. 
SISKO: For murder? What's he doing out? 
ODO: The Provisional Government let him go. Killing a Cardassian isn't considered much of a crime nowadays. 
SISKO: Doesn't sound like there's much we can do about it. 
ODO: I can get him off my Promenade. 
SISKO: If he hasn't done anything wrong, you can't just arbitrarily force him to leave. 
ODO: Watch me. 
SISKO: Mister Odo, you're not going to take the law into your own hands. 
ODO: The law? Commander, laws change depending on who's making them. Cardassians one day, Federation the next. But justice is justice, and as long as I'm in charge of security. 
SISKO: If you can't work within the rules, I'll find someone who can. 
[Holosuite]
(Iduban is running a sensuous programme including birdsong and a massage, when someone with a wicked looking knife cuts it short.) 
[Promenade]
(Nog has some bugs in a matchbox.) 
JAKE: What are they? 
NOG: Garanian bolites. Come on. 
BASHIR: I guess I know the competition now. 
DAX: What are you talking about, Julian? 
BASHIR: Did you have a nice dinner with Commander Sisko? 
DAX: Julian, Trills do not look for romance the way humans do. In fact, we find it quite a nuisance. 
BASHIR: A nuisance? 
DAX: It's a weakness of the young, and although a Trill host may have these feelings occasionally, it is our wish to live on a higher plane, to try to rise above these kinds of temptations. 
BASHIR: You said, try to rise above, which suggests you don't always succeed. 
DAX: Julian. 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Doctor Bashir. 
BASHIR: Go ahead. 
SISKO [OC]: We need medical assistance above the bar in holosuite four. 
BASHIR: Acknowledged, Commander. I still have that champagne on ice. 
[Replimat]
(Nog leaves his bugs by a couple and runs away to watch. The couple start scratching, then their skin changes colour to blue and green.) 
WOMAN: Help us! 
MAN: Somebody help us! 
WOMAN: Something is happening to us! 
MAN: Get a doctor! 
(Then suddenly it's all over and they're fine again. Jake and Nog are lead away by a Deputy. Keiko watches thoughtfully.) 
[Holosuite]
(The programme is finished and Iduban is lying on the floor) 
ODO: The door opened only twice. The first time when the computer logged Ibudan's check-in at seventeen hundred hours, sixteen minutes. The suite was secured so no one else could enter. He ran Lauriento massage holoprogram number one oh one A. Thirteen minutes later the door opened for the second time, but since Ibudan obviously didn't exit, we have to assume that's when the killer left. 
KIRA: Any evidence of a beam in during those thirteen minutes? 
ODO: No. 
KIRA: Well then how did the killer get in? 
SISKO: He might have entered the holosuite the same time Ibudan did. 
BASHIR: Cause of death's no mystery. The knife was thrust directly between the left and right thoracic vertebrae, perforating the lower ventricle of the heart. The murderer apparently had a decent knowledge of Bajoran anatomy. 
SISKO: Doctor, I want you to look for evidence that could establish someone was in here with him. 
BASHIR: I'll do a sweep for hair follicles, any skin or cellular remnants, and DNA fragments. 
SISKO: How many ships have left since yesterday. 
KIRA: Two. A Federation survey ship and a Vulcan science vessel. 
SISKO: Advise all ships in dock that departures will be delayed until further notice. 
[O'Brien's quarters]
(At their evening meal, Japanese-style.) 
KEIKO: And they were just looking for trouble. Those kids have no reason to be hanging around the Promenade. 
O'BRIEN: It's about the only place they have to go. You can't keep them locked in their rooms. 
KEIKO: This isn't like a starship, Miles. The kind of freedom children have on the Enterprise just won't work on a space station. There are too many ways to get into serious trouble here. What this place needs is a school. 
[Commander's office]
KIRA: All ships have been informed of the delays, Commander. 
SISKO: Major, do you know Mister Zayra, who operates the Transit Aid centre? 
KIRA: We've met. 
SISKO: He was just telling me something disturbing. I think you should hear it 
ZAYRA: It's just that the murdered man, Ibudan, I spoke to him yesterday about an hour before it happened. 
KIRA: Where was this? 
ZAYRA: Quark's. By the dabo table. It was after his scuffle with the shape-shifter. He told me that he was scared. He was afraid that Odo might kill him. 
KIRA: There isn't a more honourable man on this station than the Constable. 
ZAYRA: Maybe so. All I know is, an hour later, Ibudan was dead. 
[Ibudan's quarters]
(On board a Bajoran ship docked at DS9.) 
OFFICER: Computer, lights. This was Ibudan's quarters. Feel free to look around. 
ODO: Double accommodations? 
OFFICER: That's what he requested, but only one passenger was logged in. He probably just wanted larger quarters. If there's anything else you need. 
ODO: I want a record of all the passengers on board. 
OFFICER: Of course. I'll get you a copy of the ship's manifest. 
(The officer leaves) 
ODO: Computer, how many entries made from this terminal during the last seventy eight hours. 
COMPUTER: Seven entries noted in personal calendar files. 
ODO: Show them to me. 
(Stardate 46383 Secure for departure, Depart from 
Alderaan
spaceport, Lifeboat drill, Lunch meeting with 
Della Santina
, Tennis holodeck 2, Dinner, Ship's concert.) 
ODO: Take me to stardate 46384 
(Subspace conference - 
Gocke
, Meeting with Zarro - project analysis, Lunch with Moudakis, Tennis holodeck 3, Arrival DS9, Disembark, Shopping at Promenade, Tennis holodeck 2, Meeting with 
Ahern
, Lunch at Quark's Place, Transit Aid, Back up computer files, Prepare project review report, Odo.) 
[Sisko's quarters]
SISKO: You won't get an argument from me, Mrs O'Brien. When I found out what happened this morning on the Promenade 
JAKE: We weren't doing anything. 
SISKO: I don't want to talk about this now. It's this Ferengi boy, Nog. Jake's won't be having anything more to do with him. 
JAKE: He's the only one here even close to my age. 
KEIKO: That's not exactly true, Jake. There are twelve other children on board, ranging from eight to sixteen. The problem is there's no structured activity for them. Don't you miss the schools you used to go to, Jake? 
JAKE: No. I guess. Studying alone on the computer, it kind of gets boring sometimes. 
KEIKO: You know, I've never actually been a teacher, Commander, but it's something I've always thought about doing. 
SISKO: As a Starfleet Commander and as a father, I think this is a terrific idea. What do you need? 
KEIKO: Some space. 
SISKO: We'll find it. 
KEIKO: Computers? 
SISKO: You'll have them. I hope you realise what you're getting yourself into. I can't force the Bajora, the Ferengi or anyone else to send their children to your school. And even if they do come, every one has a different culture, a different philosophy. 
KEIKO: I know I'll have to come up with an innovative programme But I can't imagine any parent not welcoming the news of a school opening here. Thank you, Commander. 
(Keiko leaves) 
SISKO: If I hear of you hanging around with him. 
JAKE: I thought you didn't want to talk about this now. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: These are the DNA sequence analyses, the cellular spectrographs and the particulate matter traces. I asked Lieutenant Dax to confirm my findings and I'm afraid she concurs. 
DAX: There were no new DNA traces found in the holosuite. 
KIRA: You're saying nobody went into the room with him? 
BASHIR: Well, apart from those of us who were in there after the body was discovered, this was the only DNA present, and we've identified it as Ibudan's. 
KIRA: Wait a minute. Ibudan goes in the holosuite alone, locks the door, nobody transports in, a few minutes later he's murdered. How is that possible? 
ODO: It's not. Unless the murder was committed by someone who could get through the cracks in the door. Say, a shape-shifter. 
[Ops]
ODO: It's a pretty neat package. His calendar shows he was planning to meet with me at the time of the murder. No one except a shape-shifter could get into the holosuite. And since I'd obviously be called there after the body was discovered, traces of my DNA wind up at the scene of the crime. 
KIRA: Do you have any kind of an alibi? 
ODO: Major, I have to return to my natural state every eighteen hours to regenerate. To be quite honest about it, I was in a pail in the back of my office when Ibudan was killed. 
KIRA: The killer might have known your regenerative cycle and planned the murder accordingly. 
ODO: Like I said, a neat package. 
KIRA: Who might want to frame you for murder? 
ODO: I can think of about five hundred different people, but I haven't seen any of them around the station recently. Do you think that Federation doctor could do a sweep of Ibudan's quarters for me, see if he can find out if somebody else was using that second bed? 
KIRA: I'll send him over there right away. 
ODO: Thank you, Major. 
[Quark's]
GIRL: Dabo! 
ROM: You want my boy to go to a Federation school? 
KEIKO: Not just Federation. I'm developing a curriculum that will take a much broader approach. 
ROM: Little lady, little lady, what do you know of Ferengi education? 
KEIKO: I understand you employ a work-study approach, Mister Rom, with apprenticeships in a wide range of business and economic fields. 
ROM: We throw them into the cut-throat competition of Ferengi commerce and anyone who survives, graduates. Are you prepared to teach that to my son? 
KEIKO: I'm sure I couldn't improve on what you've already taught him in that department. 
ROM: Thank you. Thank you. I've taught him everything I know. It's so important that we prepare our youth for the challenges of the future. 
KEIKO: Exactly. Consider the advantage your son will have over other Ferengi once he's learned about other cultures, once he learns how others run their economies, conduct business, negotiate. 
ROM: You will teach my son these things? 
KEIKO: Knowledge is power, Mister Rom. 
ROM: It can't work. He will not listen to you. 
KEIKO: Why not? 
ROM: You are female. 
KEIKO: So? 
ROM: My son cannot learn anything from a female human teacher. 
KEIKO: Let him try it for a few weeks. He has nothing to lose and so much to gain. 
ROM: I don't think so. 
KEIKO: Will you at least think about it? 
ROM: Yes. Yes. Of course. Now, really, I'm quite busy. Place your wagers! Place your wagers. Get this lovely young woman a drink. 
(Keiko leaves, and as we follow her past the bar) 
ZAYRA: What do we know about him anyway? He's not one of us. 
BAJORAN: He isn't one of anything. 
ZAYRA: You know what really bothers me? This shifter was the last Chief of Security when the Cardassians were here. 
BAJORAN: He's the one who caught Ibudan for them. 
ZAYRA: Why is he still Security Chief? 
BAJORAN: You're right. We ought to talk to Major Kira. 
QUARK: Nobody knows him like I know him. Let me tell you something. He's an ill-tempered, over-bearing crosspatch. But he was no Cardassian collaborator and he's no killer. 
ZAYRA: I can't believe you're defending him, Quark. You're his worst enemy. 
QUARK: Guess that's the closest thing he has in this world to a friend. 
(A grey-bearded Bajoran in a cloak and hood watches the men talking. 
ZAYRA: Security, huh? 
[Ibudan's quarters]
(Bashir is vacuuming up samples of debris in the room) 
[Ops]
SISKO: Listen, I hear what you're saying. I understand your concerns. 
ZAYRA: We're not saying whether he's innocent or guilty, Commander. All we're saying is isn't it reasonable under the circumstances that he 
KIRA: Thank you very much for coming. 
(Zayra and the deputation leave.) 
KIRA: This is wrong. 
SISKO: And what would you suggest we do? 
KIRA: He didn't do it. 
SISKO: The man we have in charge of a murder investigation is the prime suspect, Major. Those people have a right to complain. 
DAX: Even if he's innocent, it could still seem like a conflict of interest, Kira. 
KIRA: You're going to relieve him of duty. 
SISKO: I don't see any other choice. 
KIRA: He has been completely candid about this investigation. He could have covered his tracks a half a dozen times already if he were guilty. 
SISKO: I appreciate how you feel, but the decision stands. I'll inform him myself. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: The only curious thing I found were these seofurane fragments near the matter reclamation unit. Dish, please. It appears he was trying to get rid of them. 
ODO: Do you have any idea what they're from? 
BASHIR: I know exactly what they're from. A biological sample container. I use them all the time. 
ODO: What would Ibudan be doing with a biological sample container? 
BASHIR: That I'm not so sure about, but when I analysed the fragments I detected traces of a complex organic structure. 
ODO: Translate, Doctor. 
BASHIR: It suggests Ibudan may have been conducting some sort of medical experiment on board his ship. 
ODO: He wasn't a doctor or a scientist. 
BASHIR: Let's see what a standard electrophoretic analysis tells us. 
(Bashir touches a few buttons and looks at the monitor) 
BASHIR: What the? The complex proteins are breaking down into DNA fragments. 
ODO: And what does that mean? 
BASHIR: It means we should set up a bio-regenerative field to accelerate the cellular development. If I can reconstruct the DNA sequence, it might just give us an idea what he was up to. 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Odo. 
ODO: Here. 
SISKO [OC]: May I see you in my office, please. 
ODO: Acknowledged. 
(Bashir puts his sample into a large vat) 
[Commander's office]
ODO: Commander? 
SISKO: Sit down. I am temporarily relieving you of duty. I'm sure the reasons are obvious. 
ODO: Who will be taking over the investigation? 
SISKO: I've placed Major Kira and Lieutenant Dax in charge. 
ODO: Will that be all, Commander? 
SISKO: I want you to know I don't personally believe that you were responsible for this. 
ODO: Really? Now how can that be true? You don't know me. You have no reason to believe that I wouldn't kill Ibudan if it suited my fancy. So don't tell me there isn't some doubt inside of you, some question about whether or not I murdered the man. 
SISKO: I simply feel that putting Kira and Dax in charge of the investigation will be in everyone's best interests, including your own. 
ODO: I'll take care of my own best interests. 
[Promenade]
MAN: That's him. 
VOICE: They found his DNA. 
[Security office]
(The place has been vandalised, with wall monitors smashed and Shifter painted in English on the wall) 
QUARK: I can find out who did it for you. 
ODO: Not for me. Tell it to Starfleet. I'm not in charge here any longer. 
QUARK: Well now, there's a piece of good news to brighten my day. 
ODO: You'd better take advantage of my absence while you can, Quark. 
QUARK: Oh, I will, I will. Count on it. I'll have every confidence man in the sector on board by tomorrow. 
ODO: You do and I'll 
QUARK: What? 
ODO: You're going get sloppy without me to keep an eye on you 
QUARK: I don't think so. You've kept me on my toes for far too long now. 
ODO: Sure. I've turned you into a better crook. 
QUARK: Like it or not. 
ODO: Quark, think you could use a shape-shifter in your organisation? 
QUARK: You had me going. 
ODO: I did, didn't I. 
QUARK: Yes, you did. You know, I've been asking some friends at Kran-Tobol prison about Ibudan. Whether he made any enemies while he was there. Couldn't find any. Mostly he stayed around the Bajoran dissidents that the Cardassians locked up. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: It's growing exponentially. We're going to have to increase the metabolic field energy. 
SISKO: Just what is it that's growing in there? 
DAX: Aren't those DNA patterns humanoid, Julian? 
BASHIR: That's what it looks like to me, but there's a genetic drift I can't quite put my finger on. 
SISKO: What was Ibudan up to? 
BASHIR: We're going to have to wait and see what this becomes before we have a clue. You can transfer it to the larger field now. 
NURSE: Yes, Doctor. 
SISKO: (to Dax) Care for lunch? 
BASHIR: Sure. 
DAX: No, thank you. Major Kira's waiting for my report. 
[Quark's]
BASHIR: Just how many different lives do you think she's led? 
SISKO: I don't even know. He'll go, she'll go through a list of them, then out comes another one in a later conversation. I'd guess that Jadzia is probably the sixth host. 
BASHIR: Has she changed much? 
SISKO: Changed? 
BASHIR: From the last one, Curzon Dax. I understand a Trill integrates the personality of each new host. 
SISKO: I guess I'll have to find that out. If I were to tell you some of the mischief he and I got into. There was a time, I was no older than you are, we were at the running of the Rujian Steeplechase. Dax loves the races. Anyway, there were these gorgeous seven foot Ruji twin sisters that Curzon knew, and he and I. I guess we won't be doing that again soon, will we? 
BASHIR: You care for her a great deal, don't you? 
SISKO: Dax and I are just friends, Doctor. If you're interested, you have nothing to fear from me. 
BASHIR: I mean, I were in your shoes, knowing Dax as intimately as you do, I think I'd find her hard to resist. 
SISKO: You don't understand, Doctor. Dax used to beat me regularly at bare fist Juro counterpunch. 
BASHIR: Well I guess you won't be doing that again soon, either. 
(Odo enters, and is promptly sent to Coventry) 
MAN: I'm not drinking with that scum. 
VOICE: I won't drink near this man. 
(Even Morn leaves Odo alone at the bar) 
[Schoolroom]
(Desks and computers are being brought in) 
KEIKO: In a semi-circle here, facing the module. That's right. Thank you. 
O'BRIEN: Here's Mommy. 
MOLLY: Where you been, Mommy? 
KEIKO: I've been getting ready for school tomorrow, honey. 
MOLLY: Can I come to school? 
KEIKO: I wish you could. At least I'd know one student would be coming. But you have to wait a year or two. 
O'BRIEN: How's it going? 
KEIKO: We'll be ready in time. In time for what, I'm not sure. Aside from Commander Sisko, we haven't had a firm commitment from any of the parents. What's this? 
O'BRIEN: Just a little something I replicated on the way over. 
KEIKO: Help Mommy to open her present, Molly. Come on, pull. 
(It's a school bell) 
KEIKO: Oh, Miles. Thank you. 
O'BRIEN: I want to see you standing in the Promenade tomorrow morning ringing your school bell. 
MAN [OC]: Murderer. 
O'BRIEN: I'd better take her home. 
[Promenade]
(Odo is being followed by a crowd.) 
CROWD: Murder. Killer. 
ZAYRA: Shape-shifting freak. 
(Odo retreats to the security office while the mob gathers outside.) 
O'BRIEN: O'Brien to Ops. 
[Ops]
O'BRIEN [OC]: Security to the Promenade on the double. 
KIRA: Acknowledged. 
SECURITY: Yes, sir. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: O'Brien to Sisko. 
SISKO: I'm here, Chief. What's going on? 
O'BRIEN [OC]: We've got a crowd, more like a mob, outside Odo's office. 
[Promenade]
O'BRIEN: You'd better get down here. 
[Infirmary]
(The thing Bashir's growing is about four feet long now.) 
[Promenade]
CROWD: Freak! Shape-shifter! 
ZAYRA: Freak! Murdering shifter. 
SISKO: Odo's inside? 
O'BRIEN: Yes sir, he went in a few minutes ago. The crowd followed him from the bar. 
SISKO: I want more security here and I want them armed. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir 
(O'Brien leaves) 
KIRA: It's going to be harder to control them if numbers keep growing. We can secure all turbolifts, slow down the traffic onto the Promenade. 
SISKO: Good idea. 
(Someone throws a piece of which breaks the Security office window, and the bearded man watches) 
[Infirmary]
DAX: Julian, look at this. 
BASHIR: The chromatin pattern is changing. 
DAX: It's definitely humanoid. 
BASHIR: It's definitely humanoid. It's definitely. My God! Dax, I think I know what it is. Run a chromosome analysis. I think we're going to find a gene-sequence degradation. 
[Promenade]
ZAYRA: (leading the chant) Shifter! Shifter! Shifter! Shifter! 
(Phasers are being handed out.) 
SISKO: Coming through. What the hell do you people intend to accomplish here? 
BAJORAN: We want the shape-shifter! 
SISKO: And what do you think you're going to do to him if you get to him? 
CROWD: He deserves to die. 
ZAYRA: He's right. How do you get a rope around the neck of a shape-shifter. 
SISKO: Listen to me. You will disperse immediately. Return to your quarters. Return to your ships. 
(Missiles are thrown, one hits a deputy in the face. O'Brien and Kira go hand to hand with a couple of men. Sisko shoots in the air.) 
(Odo comes out) 
MALE: He's a murderer. We want justice. 
SISKO: Do you? Justice? Really? Is it justice you're after or just some way to express your anger, your fear. Look at yourselves! In an hour, you'll regret what you've tried to do here. Do not condemn this man because he is different than you are. 
ZAYRA: We condemn him because of the evidence. 
SISKO: Then take that evidence to a court of law. There will be no justice served here today. 
BASHIR: Commander! Commander Sisko. I believe we have some new evidence to consider. The man who was murdered was not Ibudan. 
ODO: What? 
BASHIR: Come with me. 
O'BRIEN: All right. break it up now. 
KIRA: Move on, people. Let's clear the area. 
SECURITY: You heard what she said. Come on, back to your quarters. Quickly, move. 
[Infirmary]
BASHIR: A clone. That's what Ibudan was working on. Creating a clone of himself. 
ODO: And then he killed the clone to frame me for his murder. 
SISKO: How can we be sure the victim was a clone? 
DAX: A clone has identical DNA to that of the donor, but certain cloning methods cause a characteristic gene-sequence degradation which can be detected. 
BASHIR: if you know to look for it. We've matched the victim's gene-sequence with the fellow in the jar here. They're definitely both clones. 
ODO: What happens to this one? 
BASHIR: In about two days, he becomes a living, breathing member of Bajoran society. 
ODO: Let's hope he doesn't follow in his donor's footsteps. 
SISKO: What about Ibudan? 
ODO: I have an idea where to find him. 
[Shipboard quarters]
(The bearded man in the hooded cloak enters) 
LAMONAY: Computer, lights. 
(A chair morphs into Odo.) 
LAMONAY: Who are you? How did you get in here? 
ODO: Oh, I think you know. 
LAMONAY: I warn you, I'll call ship's security. 
ODO: Do that. I have some interesting questions to ask them. For example, I'm especially curious to know how the name Lamonay S came to appear on this ship's passenger list yesterday. 
LAMONAY: That is my name, and I arranged for transport on this vessel. What should that be so strange? 
ODO: You did not arrive on this ship. 
LAMONAY: No. 
ODO: Well, just what ship did you arrive on, Mister Lamonay S? I can't find any record of your arrival on any vessel that has docked here in the last three weeks. 
LAMONAY: I assure you, you are in error. 
ODO: In fact I think you did arrive on this ship, and that you spent the last few years in prison among Bajoran dissidents, one of whom I've learned was a scientist who was arrested by the Cardassians for conducting experimental research into tri-phasic cloning. 
(Odo stops Lamonay leaving and pulls off a mask to reveal Ibudan) 
ODO: Killing your own clone is still murder. 
Commander's log, stardate 46421.5. Ibudan has been turned over to the Bajoran authorities just hours after his clone gained consciousness and began a new life. The perpetrators of the mob violence have retreated into their own business. To my knowledge, Odo has received no apologies. Meanwhile, life on the station has begun to return to normal. 
[Schoolroom]
KEIKO: Computer what time is it? 
COMPUTER: Oh nine oh seven hours. 
(Sisko arrives with Jake.) 
KEIKO: I guess you were right. It isn't going to be easy. 
SISKO: Maybe it's just going to take a little time to 
ROM: Sit down! Not next to that human boy. I don't want you to have anything to do with him. 
(Nog sits as far away as possible.) 
ROM: We'll try it for a few weeks. 
(Rom leaves, and a couple of little Bajoran children arrive.) 
KEIKO: Please, come in. Take any seat. Try to be on time from now on. My name is Keiko O'Brien, I'll be your teacher. Why don't we turn on our computers and access the files on Bajor to find out a little bit more about the people and history of this world? 

