Episode Number: 423
The Deep Space Nine Transcripts - The Siege
The Siege
Stardate: Unknown
Original Airdate: 11 Oct, 1993
Last time on Deep Space Nine.;
SISKO: This is the emblem of the Alliance for Global Unity. They call themselves the Circle. 
O'BRIEN: What gives them the right to mess up our station? 
ODO: They're an extremist faction who believe in Bajor for the Bajorans. 
SISKO: I can't loan you a Starfleet runabout without knowing where you plan on taking it. 
KIRA: To Cardassia Four to rescue a Bajoran prisoner of war. 
(The prisoners are rescued.) 
KIRA: Come on. We have a ship waiting. 
SISKO: (to Dax) What if I told you that I knew someone who could bring stability to Bajor. Someone who could unite the factions and give us a chance to do our job. 
SISKO: But Bajor doesn't need a man. It needs a symbol, and that's what you are. 
JARO: The Navarch needed to return here to assume his new post. He's been made the Bajoran liaison officer to Deep Space Nine. 
SISKO: I already have a liaison officer. 
JARO: Not anymore you don't. Major Kira is no longer assigned to this post. She's been recalled to Bajor. 
QUARK: It's over. Everything. Bajor, the provisional government, the Federation being here, all of it. We've got to leave. 
SISKO: The provisional government will stand only if the military supports it. 
KRIM: We are all patriots, Commander. 
JARO: I am the Circle, Major. 
KIRA: How can you betray your own government? 
ODO: The Circle's being supplied by the Cardassians. 
KIRA: What? 
ODO: I borrowed the proof. It's got a Gul's thumb scan on it. 
KIRA: The Circle hates the Cardassians. 
ODO: They don't know it is the Cardassians. They think they've been buying from Kressari traders. 
JARO: Think of the prestige of having the new leader of Bajor being a member of your Order. 
WINN: If you are the new leader. 
O'BRIEN: Commander, two assault vessels are headed this way on a direct course from Bajor. They've given all non-Bajorans seven hours to evacuate. 
And now, the conclusion. 
[Ops]
SISKO: Starfleet feels it has no other choice. The Federation is here at the invitation of the Bajoran provisional government. 
BASHIR: No more provisional government, no more invitation. 
SISKO: Governments can break off relations with an edict. It's not so easy when it comes down to our level. Lieutenant Bilecki here is engaged to a young man from Bajor. Ensign Kelly. Ensign Kelly's daughter and a Bajoran girl worked together on a prize-winning science fair project. All of us who have served on the station for the past year have made Bajoran friends. We've come to care about what happens to these people. I know I do. So I've decided to stay. Just to make sure the evacuation is conducted properly. 
O'BRIEN: You'll need someone to oversee the inventory process, sir. 
BASHIR: Packing up all my medical supplies could take quite a while, Commander. 
SISKO: Before you volunteer too quickly, understand what you're getting into. We'll be trying to delay the takeover of the station as long as possible. Hopefully as long as it takes to expose the Cardassian's involvement in all this. It won't be easy. The Bajoran assault forces have been told that the Federation is their blood enemy. Jaro and the Circle would love nothing more than to have my head and yours and present them to the Chamber of Ministers. This is your last chance to leave here in one piece. Some of you have families. Some are on temporary assignment. I wouldn't blame anyone for getting out now while you can. I mean that. Anyone who wants to evacuate is dismissed. 
(No one moves.) 
SISKO: Non-Bajorans won't be safe here. Our families, children have to be evacuated. I'm sure many of the Bajorans who have worked with us will want to leave too. There's a lot to get done. The assault vessels will be here in less than five hours. Dismissed. 
[Promenade]
(Everyone is heading for the airlock - except) 
QUARK: Hundreds of people to evacuate and only three tiny runabouts available. Do you know what that means? 
ROM: It means a lot of people will be left behind. Tragic. Yes, brother, your compassion never ceases to amaze me 
QUARK: It means we're going to make a fortune. 
ROM: We are? 
QUARK: People will pay anything for a seat on those ships. 
ROM: You can't make me. I won't sell my seat. 
QUARK: Rom 
ROM: No, I won't stay and be killed just to fill your pockets. 
QUARK: Rom, do you actually believe that I would sacrifice my own brother's life for personal profit? 
(Rom nods.) 
QUARK: It would have to be the deal of a lifetime. 
ROM: Yes, my lifetime. 
QUARK: Listen to me. We're both going to escape. But our bags will be packed with all the gold-pressed latinum we can carry. 
[Promenade - upper level]
JAKE: Nog! 
NOG: I've been looking all over for you. 
JAKE: What ship you on? 
NOG: Rio Grande. 
JAKE: I'm on the Ganges. 
NOG: It'll be okay. We'll see each other at the Hanolan colony in a few days. 
JAKE: That's not where I'm going. 
NOG: But my dad told me 
JAKE: My ship's going to the Korat system. I guess that's where they're taking all the Starfleet families. 
NOG: This'll be over in no time. We'll be back in school driving Mrs O'Brien crazy again in a few days. 
JAKE: Just when I think I've found a new home, made a new friend, it always seems like I got to leave. 
NOG: Hey, Human. 
JAKE: Cut it out. 
NOG: Has there ever been one of your kind and one of mine who were better friends? 
JAKE: Never. 
NOG: And if our fathers couldn't break us up, no stupid coupe day. Coupe dey 
JAKE: Coup d'�tat. It's French. 
NOG: No stupid French thing will either. We'll see each other again soon. That's a promise. 
ODO: Mister Sisko, Nog. This is no time to be fooling about. Get yourselves wherever you're supposed to be. 
[O'Brien's quarters]
(O'Brien comes in carrying Molly.) 
O'BRIEN: Is that everything? 
KEIKO: Sure. 
O'BRIEN: Keiko, please, don't go like this. 
KEIKO: Like what? 
O'BRIEN: I don't have any choice. 
KEIKO: Don't you? 
O'BRIEN: He needs me. 
KEIKO: We don't? 
O'BRIEN: We can't just let the Cardies have the wormhole. 
KEIKO: They can have the whole Gamma Quadrant for all I care. Miles, come with us. 
MOLLY: Where are we going? 
O'BRIEN: On a ride, sweetheart 
MOLLY: Are you coming too, Daddy? 
O'BRIEN: Soon, baby. I'll come as soon as I can. I'll walk you to the airlock. 
[Ops]
DAX: I've scanned every subspace communication window to find a frequency to Bajor. They've got them completely jammed. 
KIRA: Then we have no choice. We'll have to take the proof to the Chamber of Ministers. 
LI: Jaro's forces will be scanning for any incoming vessels. 
SISKO: A runabout could handle a Bajoran patrol. Unfortunately I don't have one to give you 
LI: The Lunar Five base? 
KIRA: You think there's still a ship there? 
LI: We managed to get a few sub-impulse raiders underground before the Cardassians hit us, but that was ten years ago. 
KIRA: Can one of the evacuation vessels take a detour and drop me off? 
SISKO: What if you get there and those raiders won't fly? 
KIRA: Then I'll just have to wait to hear from you, I guess. 
SISKO: You may be waiting a long time. Dax, do any of your former hosts have experience with sub-impulse thruster configurations? 
DAX: Yes. Tobin Dax. 
KIRA: Tobin? I don't think I've heard about this one. 
DAX: My second host. Barely a sex life and no imagination, but he knew phase coil inverters like no one else. 
SISKO: Major Kira could use his experience today. 
(Odo arrives with Quark in his grasp) 
QUARK: I have no time for this foolishness! I still have to pack! 
(Dax and Kira leave) 
SISKO: What's the problem? 
ODO: He's been brokering seats on the evacuation vessels. 
SISKO: Where did you get more seats? 
QUARK: Everybody always asks the brokers where they get their extra seats, and all I can say is, it's my business to find preferred seating for a select list of clients 
SISKO: I have got more than two hundred people who want to get off this station. Where did you get more seats? 
QUARK: A few trades. A person here or there who changed his mind about leaving at the sight of a reasonable stipend. 
BASHIR [OC]: Bashir to Commander Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
[Airlock]
BASHIR: We're having a bit of a panic at the airlocks, sir. Far more passengers than we can handle have shown up 
[Ops]
BASHIR [OC]: And they all claim to have made arrangements to leave. 
QUARK: I might have overbooked slightly. 
SISKO: On my way. 
QUARK: It's an accepted Ferengi transit practice. I feel perfectly justified. I have complete faith in Commander Sisko's ability to straighten this out. 
ODO: I'll pass that on. He'll be so pleased to know that he has your confidence. 
QUARK: As I'm no longer needed, my brother is waiting for me on the ship. Hey, Odo, you'll miss me. You know you will. Say it. 
ODO: I'll miss you, Quark. 
QUARK: You said it, 
ODO: I'll miss the aggravation, the petty theft, the bad manners. 
QUARK: Odo. Take care of yourself. 
[Airlock]
(There are some very upset people here.) 
SISKO: Don't you understand? There isn't room for everyone. We have to get our families, our children and non-Bajorans 
LI: Where are you running to? This is Bajor. We are Bajorans. We fought a war to regain our homeland. How can you abandon it like frightened Cardassian voles? These ships are for our guests who must leave because it is no longer safe for them here. However, we are Bajorans. And I say that we stay and we solve our problems together. Are you willing to join me? 
SISKO: As soon as the passenger lists are confirmed, get these ships out of here. 
BASHIR: They're almost ready to go, sir. The Rio Grande is full and so is the Orinoco. 
SISKO: Get them launched. 
BASHIR: Aye, sir. 
(Morn and Kira board.) 
SISKO: Are you ready? 
JAKE: I've been thinking. I really think it'd be better if I stayed. Look, I just don't want anything to happen to you. 
SISKO: That makes two of us. 
JAKE: What's this? 
SISKO: A letter I wrote you. 
JAKE: A letter? 
SISKO: Just some things. 
JAKE: I'll read it as soon as I get on the ship. 
SISKO: Wait a while. I'll see you in a couple of weeks. 
(Jake and a woman board.) 
O'BRIEN: That's everyone. 
SISKO: Sisko to Ganges. Proceed with launch. 
KIRA [OC]: Acknowledged. Good luck, Commander. Kira out. 
QUARK: No! No! Wait! 
(Quark is slowed down by a very heavy suitcase that clunks) 
QUARK: My ship, the Rio Grande, my brother's on it. He's got my ticket. 
BASHIR: That ship was full, sir. I checked the list myself and Quark's name wasn't on it. His brother Rom did go aboard, but he was with a dabo girl.
QUARK: A dabo girl? What? 
SISKO: Looks like he sold your seat. 
(Sisko and Bashir walk off.) 
QUARK: No, you don't understand. You don't understand! I can't stay here. I'll be hung. Call the ships back! I'll pay anyone five bars of gold pressed latinum for a seat. Ten bars. Twenty. 
[Airlock]
(A while later, the assault ships have docked.) 
DAY: Clear. 
(Krim and officers enter) 
DAY: No resistance at all. Minister Jaro's prediction was correct. The Federation has tucked its tail between its legs. 
[Promenade]
KRIM: Where are the Bajoran officers who worked Starfleet? Where is Li Nalas? 
DAY: Perhaps they knew this old station could never withstand a siege and they abandoned it with Starfleet. 
KRIM: The most strategic position in the entire sector, at the mouth of the wormhole. Had I been Federation commander, I would not have abandoned it so easily. 
(Sisko and Co. are looking down through a grating, in civilian clothes) 
[Lunar Cavern]
(Lots of cobwebs.) 
KIRA: Can you believe a year ago I was living in a camp like this, only not quite so nice. 
DAX: Have I mentioned how allergic Trills are to insect bites? 
KIRA: Really? 
DAX: Well, he biochemical connections between the host and symbiont can't tolerate the. Oh! Whoa! What's that? Is that a spider or a dog? 
KIRA: Palukoo. The Bajoran moons are full of them. 
DAX: I suppose you used to make them your pets and sing songs about them around the campfire. 
KIRA: No, we used to eat them. There it is. 
DAX: Are you sure this thing is supposed to fly? 
KIRA: I've been in a lot worse. 
[Raider cockpit]
DAX: I guess the Bajoran resistance must have had a lot of short pilots. 
KIRA: No, just short engineers. They were always building these things without thinking. 
DAX: Encouraging. 
KIRA: Bend your knees, you'll fit. 
(She persuades the cockpit cover to finally close again.) 
KIRA: The real trick will be to fire up these thrusters after all this time. It was hard enough to get them running when they were being used every day. 
DAX: We'll get them fired up. You don't need to worry about that. 
KIRA: You're sure, huh? 
DAX: Yep. I have no intention of getting stuck here eating palukoos. 
[Ops]
DAY: We should advise Minister Jaro of our success immediately. 
KRIM: You're too eager to receive his plaudits, Colonel. What's the status of the internal security net? 
OFFICER: (female) Completely disabled, General. 
KRIM: Scan the Operations Centre for organic material. 
OFFICER: Organic? 
KRIM: The station's security chief is apparently missing. The shape-shifter. It's possible he left with the evacuation ships or perhaps there's something more here than meets the eye. 
OFFICER: Yes, sir. 
KRIM: Scan six times an hour at random intervals. 
BAJORAN: Minister Jaro on subspace, sir. 
DAY: Minister, I'm pleased to inform you that we've encountered no resistance so far. 
JARO [on viewscreen]: Good news. Then the Federation has withdrawn. 
DAY: We monitored the evacuation of three vessels several hours ago 
JARO [on viewscreen]: When I announce that we've secured the station, it will certainly impact the 
KRIM: Minister, I urge caution. The battle for this station hasn't even begun yet. 
JARO [on viewscreen]: You expect the enemy to return, General? 
KRIM: I'm not convinced they ever left. The internal security net has been sabotaged. We have no way of tracking the movements of anyone on board, which suggests someone didn't want to be that easily found. 
JARO [on viewscreen]: Kira? 
KRIM: Perhaps. She is unaccounted for. So too is Security Chief Odo. So is Li Nalas. 
JARO [on viewscreen]: You're right. Li Nalas would never abandon Bajor. He must still be there. 
[Chamber of Ministers]
JARO: Let me re-emphasise that you are to take every necessary step to keep Li Nalas alive. Dead, he's a martyr. Alive, he seals our victory. 
DAY [OC]: Understood. 
(Transmission ends) 
WINN: Once you have him, Li will see the wisdom of giving you his support. 
JARO: I'll offer him anything he wants to make sure he does. Short of becoming the next Kai, of course. 
WINN: You have a unique ability to build a consensus, Essa. Bajor has been waiting for a leader like you. 
JARO: Leaders like us. 
WINN: If I am so favoured by the Vedek Assembly. 
JARO: You don't have to worry about that. Twenty six hours after I'm sworn into office, I'll direct the Vedek Assembly to elect you Kai. Together, we will rebuild Bajor. 
[Raider cockpit]
(The raider is fired up.) 
KIRA: You got it! 
(There's smoke in the engine compartment.) 
DAX: Don't turn the engines off. We'll never get them started again. 
KIRA: Let's go! 
DAX: Thank you, Tobin. 
KIRA: Dax, come on. 
(But the panel won't close) 
DAX: The hell with it. If it's going to fly, it's going to fly. 
KIRA: Problem? 
DAX: No. Everything's wonderful. 
(She bumps her head on the cockpit roof.) 
DAX: Ow! 
KIRA: The knees. Listen to that sound. That sure brings back some memories. 
DAX: How did you ever win a war in these things? 
KIRA: We were the insects, Lieutenant. The Cardassians were just as allergic as Trills. Is the proximity system working? 
DAX: (Hits a console) I think so. 
KIRA: All right. Let's see if we can get out of here without bouncing off any walls. 
[Commander's office]
KRIM: You're be playing right into their hands. 
DAY: If you're so convinced they're still here, how can you sit and wait for them to attack? 
KRIM: They have no interest in attacking. 
DAY: What makes you so sure? 
KRIM: Because I understand military tactics. (picks up the baseball) They are vastly outnumbered. If we divide our forces 
(The lights go out.) 
OFFICER: The primary sensor array was sabotaged, sir. As soon as we tested it, the subnet shorted out. 
DAY: You can let your engineers play with the machines. I'm sending out search parties. 
[Conduit]
O'BRIEN: Eat hearty. The replicators crash in sixteen minutes. This'll have to last awhile. 
SISKO: Combat rations, Chief? Couldn't you replicate something a little more palatable? 
O'BRIEN: You don't like combat rations? 
SISKO: A french onion soup would have really been nice. 
O'BRIEN: Miracle of science, these little combat rations. Timed release formula of all the nutrients the body needs for three days. I love 'em. Only thing I miss about the Cardassian front. 
SISKO: Sisko to all units. You can thank Chief of Operations Miles O'Brien 
[Conduit 2]
SISKO [OC}: For your repast this afternoon. 
BASHIR: You haven't made any friends, here, Chief. Or should I say, Chef. 
O'BRIEN [OC]: Julian. 
[Conduit]
O'BRIEN: Well, I would have expected you of all people to appreciate the nutritional value of combat rations. 
[Conduit 2]
BASHIR: Actually, when I was in Med school, I designed an incredible candy bar which was far superior in food value. 
QUARK: Am I the only one who doesn't think this is funny? 
[Conduit]
ODO [OC]: Odo to Sisko. 
SISKO: Go ahead. 
ODO [OC]: Stand by. There's a patrol approaching. I'll get back to you in a minute. 
[Corridor]
(Odo is part of the wall.) 
ODO: A five-man unit is about to begin a search of the cargo deck. 
[Conduit 2]
BASHIR: That puts them closest to me, Commander. 
SISKO [OC]: Stand by, Doctor. 
[Conduit]
O'BRIEN: Maybe we should send him with a little more experience. Someone who can run the show, like Li. 
SISKO: No, I need him here with us. Doctor, move your unit to cargo bay six. You know what to do. And let me re-emphasise, use deadly force only if absolutely necessary. 
[Conduit 2]
BASHIR: Aye, sir. We're on our way. 
QUARK: Happy hunting. 
[Cargo bay]
(The search party's tricorder is beeping.) 
BASHIR: I wouldn't get too close to that. It's thorium isotope. 
(Bashir opens a grating and points his phaser at them. Others pop out of crates and barrels.) 
BASHIR: Prolonged exposure could have very nasty consequences. 
(The Bajorans surrender.) 
BASHIR: Bashir to Sisko. 
SISKO [OC]: Go ahead. 
BASHIR: Mission accomplished. 
[Conduit]
BASHIR [OC]: We have our first five prisoners of war. 
[Raider cockpit]
KIRA: Preparing to establish a high altitude orbit of Bajor. 
DAX: Navigational sensors aren't functioning. 
KIRA: No problem. 
DAX: No problem? Big problem. Without navigational sensors 
KIRA: we'll have to fly by the seat of our pants. 
DAX: Great. Seat of the pants technology. 
KIRA: You Starfleet types are too dependant on gadgets and gizmos. You lose your natural instincts for survival. 
DAX: My natural instincts for survival told me not to climb aboard this thing. I'd say they were functioning pretty well. 
KIRA: I know the terrain of Bajor. We ought to be able to recognise a landing site by 
(Bang! Rattle) 
KIRA: What the hell was that? 
DAX: I have no idea. None of the sensors are functioning. 
(Bang! Sparks.) 
KIRA: Someone's firing at us. Initiating evasive manoeuvres. 
DAX: (using a tricorder) I'm reading the EM signature of an impulse engine. 
KIRA: Let's see what we're dealing with. 
(She flies under the bellies of two assault craft) 
KIRA: Welcoming committee from Jaro. 
DAX: We'll never outrun them in this. 
KIRA: You're right. We'll have to even the match. 
DAX: And how do you intend to do that? 
KIRA: New playing field. I'm taking us down into the atmosphere. They won't be able to use their impulse engines down there. If they want a fight, they'll have to fight on our terms. 
[Security office]
(O'Brien gets a component from a fritzing wall panel, then he and Li get shot at.) 
O'BRIEN: Come on. Get down. 
(They return fire) 
O'BRIEN: O'Brien to Sisko. 
SISKO [OC]: Go ahead. 
O'BRIEN: They've got us pinned down in here. 
SISKO [OC]: On our way, Chief. 
[Security office]
(Sisko's team come out of the airlock. He diverts the troops while a smoke bomb is rolled to the office door.) 
O'BRIEN: Now! 
(They run down the Promenade, chased by two troopers. Odo morphs into a trip wire and our pair get away.) 
[Raider cockpit]
KIRA: All right. They've gone to thrusters. That evens things up a little. 
DAX: If you consider two against one even. 
KIRA: There is one problem. 
DAX: One? 
KIRA: The guys flying those ships? 
DAX: Yeah? 
KIRA: Used to be the guys flying these ships. Test the phaser banks. 
DAX: Full power. 
KIRA: Good. 
DAX: Not so good. The phaser locks are dead. There's no way to aim. 
KIRA: Sure there is. 
DAX: I know, I know. Seat of the pants. 
KIRA: With your eyes, Lieutenant, not your pants. Just point at them and fire. 
DAX: You fly, I'll shoot. 
KIRA: Hang on. 
(Kira does a look to come up behind one of their chasers, and Dax eventually hits it. The ship crashes into a hillside.) 
KIRA: Where the hell's the other one? 
(Bang) 
KIRA: I think we found him. 
DAX: Thruster power is falling. 
KIRA: They must have hit a plasma conduit. 
DAX: Got any fire gear? 
KIRA: Check under the seat. 
DAX: I think I've got something. Got it. (a tiny extinguisher) That's it? 
KIRA: That's it. 
DAX: Might as well jettison the plasma tank. The thrusters are gone. 
KIRA: Plasma tank ejected. Can you see any openings where we could put down? 
DAX: Six kilometres ahead at two o'clock. 
KIRA: Er, anything a little closer? 
DAX: How much closer? 
KIRA: How about right here. 
(Heads between knees as the treetops rush past) 
[Quark's]
SOLDIER: Sir, up here. One of the Ferengi's holosuites is in use. 
[Holosuite]
(Sisko, Li and O'Brien in uniform around a table.) 
DAY: Don't try it. Get their weapons. 
(The door shuts and the holograms disappear. The manual override doesn't work.) 
SISKO [OC]: This is Commander Benjamin Sisko. Please listen very carefully. The Cardassians are supplying the weapons for this coup, 
DAY: Ridiculous. No Bajoran would ever accept help from them. 
SISKO [OC]: Jaro doesn't know. The Cardassians are using the Kressari to deliver the weapons to the Circle. 
DAY: That is a Federation lie. 
SISKO [OC]: The proof is on its way to Bajor. Once this evidence is presented, the coup will end. We don't want to fight you or hurt anyone. Your officers will be our guests for awhile. I hope they won't mind Starfleet combat rations. 
(Day is beamed out) 
[Ops]
KRIM: Day, what the hell is going on? 
DAY: I was taken prisoner. The Federation is behind all this. Sisko spoke to me. 
KRIM: So, Commander, you didn't abandon your post after all. What did he say? 
DAY: Nothing of consequence. 
KRIM: Why did he let you go? 
DAY: I promised them amnesty. A promise I have no intention of keeping. 
OFFICER: General, the security net is back online. 
KRIM: Scan for their communication devices. 
OFFICER: Not picking up a thing, sir. 
KRIM: Then they must be in a shielded location. 
DAY: The Cardassians used duranium composite to shield all the conduits. 
KRIM: Then that's where we'll find Commander Sisko. 
[Forest]
(Kira is badly hurt) 
DAX: They've found the raider and now they're spreading out. We can't stay here. 
KIRA: I'll slow you down. The only thing that's important now is to get the evidence to the provisional government. 
DAX: It would be a lot more convincing if it comes from you. 
KIRA: No, the evidence speaks for itself. You have to leave me. That's an order, Lieutenant. 
DAX: The Federation officially left Bajor yesterday. You're no longer my commanding officer. 
KIRA: I can't walk. 
DAX: Yes, you can. 
KIRA: You are being a fool, Dax. 
DAX: Don't talk to your elders that way. 
MAN [OC]: You two check over there. 
(They hide in the bracken and Kira passes out from the pain.) 
[Conduit 3]
ODO [OC]: Odo to Sisko. I hope you're not still on level five. 
SISKO: No, we're on three. Why? 
ODO [OC]: Because they're about to fill the conduits with anesthizine gas, starting with level five. 
SISKO: Chief? 
O'BRIEN: It's a good idea. Kind of thing I might've come up with. We've got to get out of here, and soon. 
SISKO: We should have heard something from Kira and Dax by now. 
O'BRIEN: If they didn't make it, we're all fighting for a lost cause here. 
SISKO: We still have an ace in the hole. 
LI: Me? 
SISKO: Mister O'Brien, get the units ready to move out. 
O'BRIEN: Aye, sir. 
SISKO: Jaro's plan depends on the military's support. Without it, the coup fails. 
LI: You think I can sway the Generals. 
SISKO: Right now there's only one General I'm concerned with. The one that's here. He's picked the wrong side and we've got to convince him of that. Would he rather follow a politician or Bajor's greatest war hero 
LI: I've done everything I can to help. I'd die for my people but 
SISKO: Sure you would. Dying gets you off the hook. Question is, are you willing to live for your people? Live the role they want you to play. That's what they need from you right now. 
[Monastery]
BAREIL: Kira! Kira, you're safe. You're at the monastery. 
KIRA: How did I? The last thing I remember 
BAREIL: The entire city saw your ship go down. The searchers who found you were from my order. 
KIRA: Dax? 
BAREIL: She's fine. She's changing clothes. 
KIRA: We've got to get to the Chamber of Ministers. The Cardassians 
BAREIL: I know. Lieutenant Dax told me. 
(Kira tries to stand and falls into his arms) 
BAREIL: Careful. Careful, you've just had a broken hip mended. 
KIRA: How long have I been here? 
BAREIL: Six hours. 
KIRA: Six hours? We have to get out of here. The Chamber of Ministers 
(Dax enters, as a Vedek) 
DAX: Good, you're up. Here, put this on. 
KIRA: Why are we? 
DAX: It's the only way we can get to the Chamber of Ministers. 
BAREIL: Members of religious orders are the only ones who can travel safely in the streets. I'm going to escort you. 
KIRA: No. No, we have to go alone, Bareil. I can't be responsible for your safety. 
BAREIL: Of course you can't. But I can be responsible for yours. 
KIRA: No. 
BAREIL: Please, don't argue. 
(Bareil leaves) 
DAX: So what do you think? 
KIRA: Think? 
DAX: The nose? 
KIRA: It's flattering. 
DAX: I'm thinking of keeping it. 
[Conduit 4]
BASHIR: Quark, leave it! 
(Quark is trying to push his heavy case along.) 
QUARK: I can't leave it. It's all that I am. My personal mementos, my family album. 
BASHIR: It's filled with gold-pressed latinum and you know it. 
QUARK: Who told you? 
BASHIR: Your mother did. The day you were born. 
QUARK: Never make fun of a Ferengi's mother! Rule of Acquisition number thirty-one. 
SISKO [OC]: Sisko to Bashir. We're in position. 
BASHIR: We're stationed above airlock fourteen, sir, awaiting your signal. 
SISKO [OC]: You've got it. Just make as much noise as you can before you surrender, Doctor. 
BASHIR: We'll make them think there are two hundred of us instead of twenty, sir. Bashir out. Twenty-one. Come on. Now! 
QUARK: Fine. Fine. I'm coming. 
[Ops]
DAY: Proceed with level three. 
OFFICER: General, the enemy has attacked our position at airlock fourteen. 
KRIM: They have attacked? 
DAY: We must have flushed them out. Seal all airlocks. Lock all docking clamps. This is Colonel Day. All security units to airlock fourteen. 
(Day leaves) 
KRIM: Let me see what's going on down there 
OFFICER: Surveillance cameras have been sabotaged. 
KRIM: How many of our men are stationed by that airlock? 
OFFICER: Four, sir. 
SECURITY [OC]: Security to General Krim. The enemy forces at airlock fourteen have surrendered. We've taken several prisoners. 
KRIM: Bring their leaders to me for questioning. 
SECURITY [OC]: Aye, sir. 
[Commander's office]
LI: Please don't resist, General. We don't wish to use deadly force. My name is Li Nalas. Perhaps you've heard of me. 
[Chamber of Ministers]
(Bareil and his 'vedeks' enter) 
JARO: Guards, stop that woman. 
(Kira removes her disguise) 
WINN: What is this blasphemy? 
KIRA: I am Major Kira Nerys and I've come with proof that Cardassians are behind Minister Jaro's attempt to take control of the government. 
JARO: Major Kira has long been an outspoken opponent of the provisional government, of reason, of progress and now finally, of me. I am honoured to be included, Major, but I have no intention of allowing you to disrupt the orderly transition of power with these wild charges. 
KIRA: This is a manifest PADD from a Kressari vessel. It bears the thumbscan of a Cardassian Gul who transferred weapons to that ship. Those weapons were taken by the Kressari to the Circle. This coup will deliver Bajor back into the hands of its greatest enemies. Are you willing to live under Cardassian rule again? 
JARO: I assure you there is nothing to these accusations. 
WINN: Then you should have no objection to an inspection of this manifest, Minister. 
JARO: Of course not. We'll adjourn for the time being. And let me say that I completely support this investigation and fully intend to cooperate. 
[Ops]
(Day arrives with Bashir and Quark.) 
KRIM: Colonel, you deliberately withheld information that was to be communicated to me. 
DAY: Information? 
KRIM: Regarding the Cardassians. 
DAY: Lies. That's all they were. 
KRIM: We have been told the Chamber is in recess while evidence of Cardassian involvement is being examined. 
SISKO: The Circle is broken, Colonel. 
KRIM: I'm returning to the surface immediately to consult with the Ministers. I expect I will be asked to resign. Commander, since the provisional government has prevailed, I believe it is appropriate to return the command of this station to Starfleet. Well fought, sir. 
DAY: No! 
O'BRIEN: Commander! 
(Li leaps at Day and gets shot. Odo removes Day.) 
LI: Off the hook, after all. (and dies) 
[Quark's]
KIRA: Somehow, you figured now that he was here, things would be better, you know. He'd find a way to make things better because he was a man who could do that. A great man. I wish I knew where we could find others like him. 
SISKO: Major, there are heroes all over Bajor. I'm sitting with one. 
KIRA: I'm sorry, I don't feel like celebrating tonight. Excuse me. 
(Kira leaves) 
O'BRIEN: Sir, can I ask you something? 
SISKO: Sure. 
O'BRIEN: About Li Nalas. 
SISKO: Mm hmm. 
O'BRIEN: Listening to Kira talk about all he was, all he did, all he was going to do, she makes him sound like he was larger than life. like he was some kind of military genius. But the Li Nalas I 
SISKO: Chief, Li Nalas was the hero of the Bajoran resistance. He performed extraordinary acts of courage for his people and died for their freedom. That's how the history books on Bajor will be written, and that's how I'll remember him when anybody asks. 
O'BRIEN: Yes, sir. 
DAX [OC]: Dax to Sisko. The Ganges has just docked at pad C, Benjamin. 
SISKO: Acknowledged. 
O'BRIEN: Excuse me, sir. 
[Promenade]
JAKE: Dad! 
(Jake and Sisko embrace) 

